the world war, the peasants, workers, and the other toiling people rose in
revolt in increasing numbers to overthrow the British rule. The revolutionary
section of the petty-bourgeoisie also took arms from time to time in their
heroic struggles. Their heroic struggles have left indelible imprints on the
people, while the exploiters and oppressors were frightened. Beginning with
the Champaran peasant struggle (Bihar), the Gandhian leadership, loyal to
the British, representing the comprador big bourgeois and landlord classes,
intervened  with  the  ideology  of  non-violence,  passive  resistance  and
‘satyagragha’  and  thereby  diverted  the  developing  national  liberation
movement from the path of struggle and revolution to the path of surrender
and bargaining. To protect their political and economic interests, the British
rulers gave some political and economic concessions to the comprador big
bourgeoisie along with the landlords so that they would act as stable pillars of
British imperialism.

6. The victory of Great October Revolution of 1917 in Russia, under the
leadership of comrade Lenin, the Marxist-Leninist ideology was disseminated
in our country. Under the influence of this ideology, and as a result of heroic
and militant struggles waged against British imperialism by the proletariat,
the CPI was born in 1925. But despite innumerable opportunities, the leadership
of  the  proletariat  and  its  party  could  not  establish  itself  in  the  liberation
movement. The leadership of the Communist Party continuously refused to
recognise the real character of the Gandhian leadership. Thereby it failed to
demarcate itself and fight against it along with taking the correct revolutionary
path and revolutionary initiative. Rather, they continued to trail behind the
Gandhian leadership and turned their back in linking the universal truth of
Marxism-Leninism with the concrete practice of the Indian revolution. This
leadership  also  failed  to  integrate  itself  with  the  brave  Indian  people,
particularly  the  peasantry.  They  also  refused  to  learn  and  follow  the
triumphantly advancing Chinese revolution under the leadership of comrade
Mao Tse-tung and the Chinese communist Party. They did not take the path of
armed struggle for the seizure of political power in the national liberation
movement. Even though the objective revolutionary situation was extremely
favourable  in  India  at  the  time,  yet  the  opportunistic  leadership  of  the
communist party always turned their back to take the correct path of protracted
people’s war and the armed national liberation war. Actually the leadership of
the Communist Party helped in derailing the anti-imperialist people’s militant

8

PARTY PROGRAMME

TY  PROGR
TY  PROGR
AMME
AMME
PPPPPARARARARARTY  PROGR
TY  PROGRAMME
AMME
AMME
TY  PROGR

Central Committee (P)

CPI(Maoist)

3. The Indian proletariat emerged on the stage of history from among the
pauperised  and  ruined  peasantry  with  the  British  colonialists  setting  up
railways, mines, docks, plantations and a few industries. Thereby, from among
the comprador merchants, money-lenders, feudal rulers and landlords, who
came forward in investing in industries, such as textile, jute, steel, paper cement
and plantations etc. under the patronage of and according to the needs and
planning  of  the  British  imperialists,  emerged  the  present  comprador  big
capitalist class, which is completely dependent on imperialism for its survival
and growth. At the same time, an educated petty-bourgeoisie class emerged
out of the educational system introduced by the British imperialists to suit the
needs of their administration and rule.

4. From the very beginning of the British rule, they had to face the glorious
national liberation struggles of the Indian people. After the British occupation,
the history of India is the history of uninterrupted historic struggles carried
out by the Indian people against the British imperialists and also against the
feudal exploitation and oppression. This history has been the history of the
glorious revolutionary peasant struggles, and peasant upsurges emerged on
the scene one after another. A series of peasant struggles and rebellions against
the British colonialists and their feudal props, such as the Santhal revolt of
1854-56, culminated in the First War of Independence of 1857, which is the
beginning of the Indian democratic revolution. This uprising of the revolting
army, the peasantry and patriotic people spread throughout the country like a
prairie fire, inflicted many humiliating defeats on the colonialists and shook
the very foundation of foreign British rule. But it ended in failure because of
the feudal leadership and their betrayal.

Thereafter, a large number of armed peasants and tribal rebellions against
the British colonialists and their feudal props took place. However, as neither
the working class was strong enough to provide leadership, nor the working
class ideology along with revolutionary party based on such an ideology was
there, these struggles and rebellions too met with failure.

5. The Congress Party, and later the Gandhian leadership in the Congress,
was brought forth by the British colonialists to divert and derail the growing
anti-imperialist national liberation movement and to deprive the people of
revolutionary leadership. Even then as the living conditions of the toiling
masses became more and more unbearable as a result of imperialist crisis and

PARTY PROGRAMME

7

Party Programme

1. Our beloved motherland, India, is one of the oldest, largest and most
populous countries of the world, inhabited by near about 105 crores of people.
Our country is a country endowed with rich natural resources like labour power,
animal,  land,  water,  mineral,  forest,  etc.  India  is  a  multinational  country,
comprising people of various nationalities and tribes going through various
stages of their development, including people of different religious faiths.
Vast  majority  of  the  population  of  our  country  is  dependent  mainly  on
agriculture. Hence, in essence, it is a country of peasant masses. The people
of this country are hard-working and talented. It is also a land of one of the
oldest civilisations. On the whole, our country and our people are the inheritors
of a rich revolutionary tradition and a glorious cultural heritage.

2. After thousands of years of feudal domination in our country, the British
colonialist  intervention  began  with  the  East  India  Company.  Thereafter,
beginning  with  the  victory  of  the  Battle  of  Plassey  of  1757,  the  British
colonialists began to occupy the whole country and succeeded in establishing
their  own  direct  rule  during  the  next  several  decades.  At  that  time  India
possessed flourishing trade and commerce along with thriving handicraft and
cottage industry. Embryo of commodity economy was emerging from the womb
of feudal economy. But the exploitative and oppressive rule of the British
colonialists brutally ruined this development. They also mercilessly ruined
indigenous artisans and traders. The self-sufficient natural economy of the
village also disintegrated to some extent initially and later to a large extent.
They converted India as a source of their raw materials and market for their
industrial goods. During near about 200 years of their direct colonial rule and
exploitation, the Indian economy was converted in to a completely dependent
economy on imperialism. The Indian economy was thus integrated into the
world capitalist-imperialist economy in a subordinate position and subsequently
was moulded to suit the needs of British-imperialist finance capital.

In order to consolidate their rule and to carry on their ruthless exploitation,
the  British  colonialists  preserved  the  feudal  forces  and  at  the  same  time
reoriented them in to such new Zamindars, who acted as their social props,
through  permanent  settlement  in  the  form  of    Zamindari,  Mahalwari  and
Rayatwari system of land ownership. Thus the British rulers transformed
independent and feudal India in to a colonial and semi-feudal India.

6

PARTY PROGRAMME

FOREWFOREWFOREWFOREWFOREWORDORDORDORDORD

The present draft document has been finalized by Joint CC of
the erstwhile CPI (ML)[PW] and the MCCI in September 2004 after
extensive  discussions.  Five  draft  documents  were  prepared  after
intense discussions in a series of bilateral meetings held between the
high-level delegations of the two erstwhile parties between February
2003 and September 2004. The Joint CC meeting deeply studied
these  five  draft  documents,  freely  exchanged  the  rich  experiences
acquired  through  the  revolutionary  practice  during  the  past  three
decades and more, and arrived at a common understanding on several
vexed questions confronting the Indian revolution in the backdrop of
the international developments.

The present document – Party Programme – is the synthesis
of all the positive points in the documents of the two erstwhile parties,
as well as their experiences in the course of waging the people’s war,
fighting against revisionism, and right and left opportunist trends in
the Indian and international communist movement, and building a
stable and consistent revolutionary movement in various parts of our
country.

We are placing the present document before the entire rank and
file  of  our  new  Unified  Party  for  immediate  guidance  and
implementation. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that
this  is  a  draft  for  the  forthcoming  Congress  of  the  Unified  Party.
Hence, it has to be enriched further by the participation of all the
Party members and suggesting amendments where necessary. Thus
it should become an effective weapon in the hands of the Party for
solving  the  fundamental  problems  of  the  Indian  revolution  and  to
advance  it  towards  victory.

21-9-2004

Central Committee (P)

Communist Party of India (Maoist)

PPPPParty  Programme
arty  Programme
arty  Programme
arty  Programme
arty  Programme

Introduction

The 1970 programme of the CPI(ML) and the MCC document of 1969
have provided the correct revolutionary general line for the Indian revolution
after breaking the decades-old entrenched revisionism in the Indian communist
movement. The line laid out in these two documents has been further enriched
in the various Conferences and Congress of the two parties based on the vast
experience accumulated by the two organisations in the course of leading the
people’s war in India and the major developments that had taken place in the
domestic and international situation.

The history of our two parties, representing the two main Maoist streams
in India, is deeply rooted in the resounding period of ’60s. It was the period
during which the two outstanding and front-ranking leaders of our two streams–
comrades CM and KC – emerged on the scene in the course of applying MLM
to the concrete conditions of India and by fighting, exposing and breaking
from the age-old revisionism of the CPI and CPI(M) brand. The great Naxalbari
revolt led by comrade CM in May 1967 proved to be the clarion call of ‘Spring
Thunder over India’.

In the subsequent period, our two Maoist streams not only continued the
legacy of our beloved leaders but also achieved great successes in rebuilding
and advancing the armed agrarian revolution through protracted people’s war.
As a result, the waves of the new phase of the ‘spring thunder’ are once again
reverberating today in Andhra, Bihar-Jharkhand, Dandakaranya, and other
areas of our country; they are being increasingly felt all over India and far
beyond.

Today, the ever-deepening economic and political crisis in the country
as part of the overall crisis in the international arena is providing fertile ground
for  a  new  high  tide  of  people’s  movements,  including  the  revolutionary
movement under the leadership of our Unified Party. The unified Party, by
providing the much-needed leadership to the people’s movement countrywide,
is bound to accelerate the armed agrarian revolutionary war throughout the
country. In this background we are confident that this new Party Programme
will serve in giving greater clarity regarding the Party’s general line to the
entire rank and file and in helping the Party to assume leadership of the rising
tide of people’s struggles and in advancing the people’s war throughout the
country.
PARTY PROGRAMME

5

machinery from their British imperialist masters; but also have preserved and
strengthened it further during the last 55 years. This state machinery is nothing
but an instrument of suppression and repression, and represents the dictatorship
of the comprador bourgeoisie and landlord classes subservient to imperialism.
The repressive rule is sought to be covered up behind the façade of fraudulent
parliamentary system. This state system represents the semi-colonial , semi-
feudal system under neo-colonial form of indirect rule, exploitation and control.
During the recent years, the repressive teeth of this state system has not only
been further sharpened but also centralized more and more by the comprador-
feudal alliance backed by imperialism. The chief weapons of this blood thirsty
rule are well-organized and well-equipped modern army, paramilitary forces
along with police forces of different states, anti-people judiciary and neck-
deep corrupted and powerful bureaucracy. This state machinery is extremely
reactionary  and  anti-people.  Without  smashing  this  state  machinery,  any
struggle for the basic rights and problems of the people and for their uplifting
cannot move forward beyond a limited level.

18. Viewing the dominant position of India in over all South-Asia, the
imperialists have always backed, encouraged and instigated the expansionist
designs of the comprador Indian ruling classes, so that they could continue
their unchallenged control over the vast profitable market. According to the
needs  and  dictates  of  imperialists,  the  comprador  ruling  classes  of  India
continue to send their armed forces as their mercenary forces to other countries
of the world such as Somalia, Yugoslavia, Congo, Rwanda etc., from time to
time.  Through  this  aggressive  expansionist  role,  the  Indian  comprador
bureaucrat bourgeoisie, while serving the imperialists principally, has its own
interests also in the region in looting these countries of their capital, market,
raw materials etc.

Due  to  these  expansionist  ambitions  and  intervention  and  subversive
activities  of  the  Indian  comprador  bureaucrat  bourgeoisie,  backed  by
imperialism, Indian expansionism has emerged as a great threat to the security
and integrity of all the South-Asian countries and especially their people with
a vastly superior army along with strong centralized state machinery. Indian
Ruling classes interfere in internal affairs in Nepal including showing readiness
to send its armies there, just as the Indian army was sent into the then East
Pakistan (Now Bangladesh) in 1971, into Sri Lanka to suppress the LTTE in
1987.  The  ruling  classes  of  India  have  become  an  important  medium  for

movement  and  dragged  the  revolutionary  masses  behind  the  Gandhian
leadership through forming an opportunistic alliance with it. Most of all, this
leadership betrayed the great Telangana armed revolt of the peasantry and
entrenched itself in the mire of parliamentarism and revisionism in the deceptive
name of using parliament. That too, at such a time when the objective situation
was unprecedentedly favourable for advancing the agrarian revolution and
the glorious path of protracted people’s war illuminated by comrade Mao
Tse-tung  and  the  victorious  Chinese  revolution.  Despite  this,  brave
revolutionary ranks of the Communist Party stood by the side of the fighting
people and led many revolutionary struggles. They laid down their valuable
lives to achieve the lofty aim of completing the Indian revolution as a part of
the world proletarian revolution.

7. During and after the period of Second World War, the utter defeat of
the fascist forces inflicted by the red armed forces of the Soviet Union and the
world people led by great Stalin; the considerable weakening of imperialism
as a result of the war; the rise of the people’s democratic power in East European
countries and earth-shaking victory of the great Chinese revolution, under the
leadership  of  comrade  Mao  Tse-tung,  which  illuminated  the  path  of  the
liberation  to  the  oppressed  nations  and  people  of  the  whole  world;  the
emergence of the world socialist system in one-third of the globe along with
the unprecedented upsurge of the national liberation struggles, established a
new balance of forces in the world. More particularly, the victory of the Chinese
revolution concretely brought forth the path of liberation of the oppressed
nations and people of Asia, Africa and Latin America from the exploitation
and  oppression  of  imperialism.  That  is  how  the  victory  of  the  Chinese
revolution played a powerful role in changing the balance of forces in the
then prevailing world situation.

In such a grave situation faced by imperialists, it became immediately
necessary for them to change their old style of direct colonial rule to adopt a
new style of colonial rule and exploitation by relying on the agents they have
selected and trained in order to save themselves, because the newly-emerged
situation had already weakened them to a great extent. The imperialists had
already  trained  their  selected  agents,  who  represented  the  big  comprador
capitalist and land lord classes, as their faithful ruling class; thereby they
changed the old colonial form of their exploitation and rule into the neo-

16

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

9

colonial form of indirect rule, exploitation and control.

8. In the Indian sub-continent also unprecedented revolutionary situation
emerged on the scene during, and in the immediate aftermath of, World War
II. Powerful movement for the release of the prisoners of the ‘Azad Hind
Fauz’; powerful anti-imperialist demonstrations of the students all over India;
Tebhaga,  and  Bakasht  movements  along  with  the  powerful  anti-feudal
movement in the princely states; strike of the post and telegraph employees;
glorious mutiny of the R.I.N. naval forces in Bombay along with emerging
resentment among the armed and the air-forces; police revolt in Bihar; solidarity
struggles of the working class and the beginning of the historic armed peasant
struggles in Telangana, brought the imperialist rule in India almost to the verge
of collapse.

In such a situation, the British imperialists used the services of their faithful
comprador agents, the leaders of the Congress and the Muslim league, to
maintain  their  exploitation,  control  and  indirect  rule  to  suppress  the
revolutionary upsurge of the Indian people. Amidst conspiracies and intrigues
resulting in communal carnage and massacre the country was partitioned on
religious basis. British imperialists transferred the power to their faithful agents,
the leadership of the congress party - representing the comprador bureaucratic
capitalist and big landlord classes- and went behind the curtain. The declaration
of ‘Independence’ in 1947 was nothing but fake in essence. Actually the direct
colonial and semi-feudal system of the British imperialists was replaced with
semi-colonial and semi-feudal system under the neo-colonial form of indirect
imperialist rule, exploitation and control.

9. During the subsequent years of formal independence, which is fake in
essence, these comprador bureaucratic big bourgeoisie and big landlord ruling
classes continued to serve the imperialists faithfully. In the changed situation,
besides  the  British,  the  U.S.  and  other  imperialist  exploiters,  the  Soviet
exploiters  too,  with  the  restoration  of  capitalism  by  the  Khruschovite
revisionism after the death of Com. Stalin, started penetrating into our country.
Subservient to the imperialists, the Indian ruling classes kept the doors open
for the loot and plunder of our country by the imperialist powers while fulfilling
their own interests also by utilizing the inter-imperialist contradictions.

10. After the end of direct colonial rule, imperialism adopted new forms
of  indirect  rule,  exploitation,  and  control  of  the  nations  and  countries

16. The crisis of imperialism that had emerged in the beginning of 70s
continues to deepen further and further. Though they got some respite with
the collapse of the erstwhile Soviet State capitalist imperialism, they could
not tide over their crisis. Hence they brought forth the imperialist policies of
privatization, liberalization and globalization more forcefully. These policies
have not only more openly tightened the grip of imperialist finance capital,
but also accelerated the pace of exploitation and oppression of the oppressed
nations and people. In spite of this, the crisis of imperialism has touched
unprecedented new heights in the recent years, unheard of since the end of
Second World War, and the normal means of solving it have already been
exhausted. In this back-drop, the U.S imperialists have openly started resorting
to military means in their desperate attempt to come out of the deep-rooted
and all round economic, political and social crises.

Today,  in  India  and  all  other  backward  countries,  thousands  of  big
imperialist MNCs and TNCs are openly operating. Imperialism is increasingly
moving towards trampling under-foot the so-called sovereignty, in the neo-
colonial type of semi-colonial countries through these policies. All kinds of
restrictions are increasingly removed for the autocratic control, expansion
and unrestricted exploitation of the imperialist finance capital. The so-called
public sector, which was erected in the deceptive name of socialism to mislead
the  public  opinion,  is  being  offered  to  the  comprador  bourgeoisie  and
imperialist MNCs. These policies are further worsening the living conditions
of the peasant masses, particularly the landless and poor peasants, including
large sections of the middle peasants and a section of the rich peasants. The
living  conditions  of  other  toiling  people,  particularly  the  working  class,
peasants,  students  and  youth  including  women,  employees  and  petty-
bourgeoisie section are increasingly deteriorating and are thrown into a life
and death crisis. Hence a fertile ground is being created for upsurges against
imperialism and their faithful ruling classes.

According to the imperialist needs and planning, the Indian ruling class
has haphazardly carried out industrialization. Through irrational exploitation
of the natural resources it has trampled under-foot the environmental norms
thereby  endangering  the  ecological  balance  even  at  the  cost  of  country’s
interest.

17. The Indian ruling classes have not only inherited the sanguinary state

10

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

15

models in place of radical land reforms based on “land to the tiller”. Firstly,
they brought forth community development programme, rural co-operatives
and intensive agricultural development programmes (IADP) etc. with the aid
of,  and  according  to  the  needs  and  planning  of,  Ford  and  Rockefeller
foundations, the World Bank and other imperialist agencies. Thereafter, in
continuation of these steps they introduced the so-called Green Revolution in
Punjab and some rural pockets of the country by the mid-1960s. This ‘Green
Revolution’ was meant not only to provide captive market for the imperialist
goods but also was an attempt to counter the emerging threat of the Red
Revolution and to solve the chronic food crisis.

Despite increase in the productivity including production, the negative
results of this ‘Green Revolution’ started reflecting on the surface very soon.
It greatly increased the cost of agricultural inputs while the prices of production
lagged far behind or remained almost stagnant. Thus, this increasing gap
resulted in increasing fall in agricultural savings; thereby living condition of
the peasantry continues to be deteriorating instead of improving, whereas, the
market for agricultural products of the imperialists such as farm machinery,
chemical fertilizers, HYV seeds, pesticides, etc.  continues to grow along
with their profit. Leaving aside a handful of big landlords, including some
newly emerged big pro-capitalist landlords (from among the old rich peasants),
the vast majority of the peasantry, particularly the poor peasants and agricultural
labourers, as well as a sizable section of the middle peasants, continue to be
increasingly driven into the clutches of the usurers, merchants, big pro-capitalist
land lords, whereas the grip of the Banks and other financial institutions also
continues to tighten further and further.

With the increasing penetration of imperialist finance capital, its grip has
been further tightened. This has also further introduced some capitalist relations
of production, but this capitalism is very much distorted and disarticulated.
Moreover, the land question has not been fundamentally solved. No doubt,
with the ‘Green Revolution’, some new class forces have emerged on the
scene, but this so-called capitalist development has brought nothing except
misery and resultant discontentment among the peasant masses, that too, on a
massive scale. Despite some changes in the areas of the ‘Green Revolution’,
no significant change has occurred in the semi-feudal relations of India as a
whole.

subordinated to them. That is called neo-colonialism. This is more deceptive
and more sinister form of colonialism. Now the imperialist finance capital
continues to be exported unrestrictedly through the international institutions
of the imperialists, such as the IMF and the World Bank, which imposed
stringent conditionalities and also through loans and ‘grants’ by the imperialist
countries. With this, the unrestricted flow of imperialist finance capital has
further  increased  and  its  grip  has  also  tightened.  Despite  this,  the  direct
investment by multinationals also continues to increase.

The domination and control of the imperialist finance capital in every
sphere  of  our  life-economic,  political,  military  and  cultural-continued  to
increase further and further. Actually, the imperialists control the key sectors
of the Indian economy and even the administration. The all-round penetration
and control of imperialist finance capital is reflected in a phenomenal increase
in the total quantum of imperialist capital, in thousands of collaborations for
technology and capital, in unequal and humiliating agreements and dependence
on imperialism for ‘aid’, grants and loans, capital goods, technical know-
how, agricultural inputs, military supplies and armament industries. Recently,
the stranglehold of imperialist finance capital over agricultural sector also
continued to tighten along with other sectors because of WTO and imperialist
globalization. All these are made possible because of the subservience of the
comprador capitalist and feudal classes to imperialism. Hence, India continues
to be a semi-colonial and semi-feudal country under the neo-colonial form of
imperialist indirect rule, exploitation and control.

11. According to the dictates and planning of the imperialists, particularly
the U.S. imperialists, comprador big capitalist and feudal ruling classes of
India continue to follow such a reactionary foreign policy which serves the
imperialists according to the needs of their world strategy.

12. After the end of World War II, the U.S. imperialism emerged as the
most powerful imperialist country. It had thus come to the fore as the main
enemy of the oppressed people, oppressed nations and the world proletariat.
Then, after the demise of comrade Stalin and particularly since the 20th
congress of the CPSU, the Soviet Union was transformed into a capitalist
country. It further emerged as a social-imperialist and thereby a super power
by 1970. It continued to wear the garb of socialism and made the East European
countries  as  its  satellites.  Moreover,  it  started  to  exploit  many  oppressed

14

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

11

countries and nations and succeeded in establishing its domination and control
on some of them. It equipped itself with nuclear arsenal and emerged as a
great danger and vicious enemy of the world people. It emerged as a chief
rival of the U.S. imperialism for re-division and hegemony over the world. In
this contention for re-division and hegemony, millions of lives were lost in
several proxy wars, and on a few occasions the world even came to the brink
of world war. In India too, these two super powers continued to be the big
oppressors and exploiters of the people and contended with each other. But
after the 70’s, the Soviet social imperialists continued to maintain the dominant
position for more than two decades. After the collapse of the Soviet superpower,
the  Indian  ruling  classes  began  to  tilt  towards  the  US  superpower  which
assumed the dominant position at present.

13. Indian comprador bureaucratic class is one of the chief instruments
for the imperialist exploitation and control over India. It is completely tied
with and dependent on imperialism for its existence and development. Its
interests are closely interlinked with the interests of the imperialists in all
fields. It is tied to imperialism and allied with feudalism. This comprador
bureaucratic capitalist class (or big bourgeoisie or state monopoly bourgeoisie)
is extremely reactionary, anti-people and anti-national and subjects the vast
Indian masses - the proletariat, peasantry and the petty-bourgeoisie to ruthless
exploitation and oppression and it is a hurdle for the development of the
independent  Indian  economy.  In  the  alliance  of  Comprador  Bureaucratic
Bourgeoisie and big land lord class, the Comprador Bureaucratic Bourgeoisie
plays  the  leading  role.  It  also  restricts  the  growth  of  small  and  middle
bourgeoisie and continues to ally with imperialism to maintain the decadent
pre-capitalist modes of production. Hence, this class is also one of the targets
of the Indian new democratic revolution.

14. Afraid of the people’s wrath, demonstrated by peasants’ revolt, and
particularly panicky with the great and historic Telangana peasant’s revolt,
the comprador big capitalist and feudal ruling classes of India, introduced
some changes in land relations in the name of abolishing feudalism after 1947
according to the needs and planning of the imperialists. The ‘princely states’
and the intermediary system of land tenure were abolished after paying huge
compensations. But the monopoly over land by big landlords continues to
remain as such while the vast population of the village poor remains deprived

of the land.

Even today, our country is fundamentally a country of the peasant masses
as two-thirds of the population live in the rural areas. The overwhelming
majority of the peasantry is the most exploited and oppressed class. They are
forced to live in most wretched and extremely poor conditions. Despite the
hoax of all land reforms, 30% of the total land is concentrated in the hands of
landlords, who constitutes only 5% of the population, while middle peasantry
constitute about 20% of the rural population, where as rich peasantry constitutes
10 %. 65 % of the total peasantry are landless and the poor peasants, who own
either no land at all or meagre land. Extreme forms of semi-feudal exploitation
are still prevalent in the countryside. The major prevailing forms of such
exploitation are extortion of their produce through share cropping, which is
robbing them of their produce up to 50%, bonded labour, usurious and merchant
capital and other forms of extra-economic coercion.

The  backward  agriculture  on  fragmented  land,  mainly  dependent  on
primitive methods in some places and vagaries of nature, is subjecting a large
population of peasantry including an overwhelming number of middle peasants,
to live a miserable life. The countryside is dominated by landlords, usurers,
merchants and religious institutions. These exploiting sections are the mainstay
of the semi-feudal relations of production in the country. All these facts show
that our country is a semi-feudal country. This class of feudal landlords protect
and  instigate  casteism,  communalism,  superstition  and  maintains  private
armies, or goonda forces, perpetuates medieval oppression on the rural masses,
and oppressed dalits, adivasis and women through often perpetrating massacres,
rapes etc. It is this class of oppressors who hold social and political power,
ensures perpetuation of decadent feudal culture along with encouraging caste,
fanaticism,  male-domination,  including  patriarchy  and  undemocratic
authoritarian ideas etc. in the vast countryside. This is the overall dominant
aspect of the rural society of India and the main obstacle to the release of
productive  forces  and  the  progress  of  our  country.  This  class  of  usurers,
merchants and big landlords is extremely reactionary and a social prop of
imperialism; hence one of the chief targets of the new democratic revolution
in India.

15. After the transfer of power in 1947, the Indian ruling classes, in serving
imperialism, resorted to several measures to promote alternative development

12

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

13

ideology and culture are being propagated and imposed on a vast scale by
imperialists and their compradors through their propaganda machine. Religious
fanaticism and anti-scientific ideas are being inflammed vigorously. Along
with this, revisionism,  reformism and economism- all these ideas are being
highlighted  and propagated on a massive scale to counter and derail the
revolutionary movements.

The party will have to expose all these imperialist and feudal ideologies
and cultures and also have to fight against those relentlessly. It should bring
forth the new democratic and socialist culture as an alternative to the people.
The new democratic revolution will smash this imperialist and feudal ideology
and culture and will establish the new democratic culture and at the same time
will also hold high the banner of socialist ideology.

This ideology and culture will be guided by the great ideology of the
proletariat, that is, Marxism-Leninism-Maoism. This culture will express its
international solidarity with the on-going revolutionary struggles for national
liberation, democracy and socialism all over the world by uniting with them
in their fight for people’s democratic and socialist culture. It will defeat all
types of revisionist ideology and hold high the red banner of the most scientific
and developed ideology of Marxism-Leninism-Maoism.

27.  In  our  country  parliamentary  system  was  imposed  by  British
imperialism from above. Moreover, bourgeois democratic revolution too has
not been completed here. Hence no bourgeois democracy ever came into being
here. Extreme backwardness, poverty and illiteracy along with uneven social,
economic,  and  political  conditions  continue  to  exist.  In  this  back  drop
parliamentary system is an outright fraud framed  in the deceptive name of
‘biggest democracy of the world’ whereas all the institutions like parliament,
legislative assemblies, executive councils ( including the so-called panchayati
raj) are a thin cover for the autocratic rule representing the dictatorship of
comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  and  feudal  classes  subservient  to
imperialism.

Actually, no viable solution of the fundamental problems of the people
can be sought through using any parliamentary institution. Besides this, the
experience of last 55 years has amply confirmed the fact that whoever tried to
participate in the elections in the name of tactics of using it, most of them got
entrenched in the mire of parliamentary system and revisionism, sooner or

imperialist exploitation and control of the South-Asian countries and more
particularly for their people. Hence, it is one of the most important tasks of
the Indian proletariat and the Maoist forces in India to more closely unite with
the people of South Asia to expose, fight and defeat the expansionist designs
of the Indian expansionists along with the imperialists.

19. There are four major contradictions in our country:

(i) Contradiction between imperialism and Indian people;
(ii) Contradiction between feudalism and the broad masses of the
people;
(iii) Contradiction between capital and labour;
(iv) Contradiction among the ruling classes.

From among these four major contradictions the first two contradictions
are basic contradictions. These two contradictions have to be resolved during
the present stage of the new democratic revolution. These two contradictions
also play the major or dominant role in chalking out the overall strategy for
the present stage of the Indian revolution.

Out of these two basic contradictions, the second contradiction that is,
contradiction  between  feudalism  and  broad  masses  is  the  principal
contradiction at present. During the process of resolving this contradiction
through the armed agrarian revolution, which is the axis of the new democratic
revolution,  that  is,  protracted  people’s  war,  other  contradictions  will  be
resolved.    Besides  these  two  basic  contradictions,  the  other  two  major
contradictions also play an important role in determining the strategic and
tactical policies for the new democratic revolution of India today.

Besides these major contradictions there are some other contradictions
also, which have to be resolved as a subordinate part of the resolution of the
basic or major contradictions.

20.  India  is  a  multinational,  multi-lingual  country  comprising  many
cultures. These nationalities and tribes are going through different stages of
their development. On the nationality question, imperialism has always adopted
the policy of using the developed nationalities as their instrument to retard the
development of other undeveloped or developing nationalities and to eliminate
their identity and thereby to continue their exploitation and oppression. In

24

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

17

India too, the ruling classes, subservient to imperialism, had transformed the
country as a prison-house of nationalities under the so-called slogan of “unity
and integrity” of the country. It is in such a context that the ongoing nationality
struggles in various parts of the country today are advancing by assuming
various forms including armed struggle. The struggles of the Kashmiri, Naga,
Assam, Manipuri and other nationalities in north-eastern region are already
going  on  by  assuming  the  armed  form.  The  people  of  these  oppressed
nationalities are not only fighting for their identity but also for the most just
cause of achieving their honourable right of self-determination, including the
right of secession and the demand for secession.

Nationality question, in the final analysis, is a matter of class question. In
this light, the nationalities’ struggles can achieve genuine liberation only as a
part of the larger struggle directed against the Indian ruling classes and the
imperialist predators advancing under the leadership of the proletariat towards
completing the New Democratic Revolution. Our party must unequivocally
support these nationalities struggles. It must also resolutely oppose the vicious
attempt of the Indian ruling classes to suppress these movements with their
military might. It must also oppose the attempts of the Indian ruling classes to
impose Hindi and English or any other language on the nationalities unilaterally.
The right of self-determination including, and up to, the right of secession,
must be upheld and highlighted forcefully in all circumstances. Our party
must also uphold and highlight the standpoint that final and genuine solution
of the nationality question lies with the establishment of new federation of
people’s  democratic    republics  after  completely  smashing  the  present
centralized  state  machinery,  representing  and  protecting  the  interest  of
imperialism and feudalism.

21. Condemnable caste system and casteism, especially the Brahmanical
casteism, is a special feature of the semi-feudal system prevailing in India.
The obnoxious caste system and casteism, which is being perpetuated by the
ruling classes for thousands of years, is specific form of social oppression and
exploitation affecting the oppressed castes of the country. Casteism crushes
the self-respect of the individual, treats them as inferiors and creates a social
hierarchy with each rung in the ladder looking down on the other. It is such a
weapon, which is used both by the Indian ruling classes and the imperialists
to instigate and divide the poor people and the oppressed. The majority of the

The  targets  of  our  revolution  are  the  imperialists,  the  comprador
bureaucratic bourgeoisie and the big landlord classes. These three mountains
are heavy weight on the back of our people. These three enemies have blocked
the development of our country and our people. Therefore, the immediate
basic programme before the political representatives of Indian proletariat and
its vanguard-the communist party- is to overthrow the semi-colonial, semi-
feudal rule of the big landlord-comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie classes,
and imperialism that backs them, through armed struggle and to establish the
people’s  democratic  state  under  the  leadership  of  proletariat-the  new
democratic state; in place of it by smashing the reactionary autocratic state.
This  new  democratic  state  will  be  the  people’s  democratic  dictatorship
exercised  by  the  united  front  comprising  the  proletariat,  peasantry,  petty-
bourgeoisie and the national bourgeoisie class under the leadership of the
proletariat based upon the worker-peasant alliance. The state will guarantee
real democracy for the vast majority of the people while exercising dictatorship
over the tiny minority of the exploiters. The party’s ultimate programme is
socialism and then advancing towards communism on a world scale.

Since  India  is  semi-colonial  and  semi-feudal,  neither  there  is  real
independence  nor  there  is  democracy.  Therefore,  this  new  democratic
revolution will bring national independence uprooting the imperialist slavery
and its exploitation and control and will establish the people’s democracy
uprooting the feudal autocracy. Actually, the struggle for national liberation
uprooting imperialism and the struggle for democracy for uprooting feudalism
i.e. the national and democratic tasks are closely integrated and intertwined
with each other. Since feudalism is the prop of imperialism, so anti-feudal
struggle is, at the same time, anti-imperialist struggle also. That does not mean
that there is no need to build up anti-imperialist struggles separately. This
revolution will establish a free, independent and developing new democratic
economy in place of semi-colonial semi-feudal economy which will be the
basis of socialist economy.

26. Today, the rotten, decaying, antidemocratic, anti-people, obnoxious
semi-colonial and semi-feudal culture is dominating all the spheres of our
life. Hatred for labour, patriarchy, superstition, autocracy, imperialist slavery,
national chauvinism, communalism, casteism, blind greed, self-centredness,
consumerist idea of eating, drinking, marrying, and perverted sex-centered

18

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

23

lives and  livelihoods of the advasis. Moreover,  they have been neglected
socially, culturally and politically.

We would have to formulate such special policies through which we could
involve actively the large majority of these sections in the mainstream of new
democratic revolution. Particularly, it would remain the long-term need of the
party to pay special attention to the adivasi areas due to utter negligence of
these areas by the ruling classes and also because of their strategic importance.
Along with this, we would have to make strong efforts to prepare soldiers and
leaders of the revolution from among them seeing the glorious tradition of the
continuity of their anti-imperialist and anti-feudal struggles.

It is our task to organise them on the basis of their political, economical,
social,  cultural,  lingual  and  educational  issues  by  ensuring  them  political
autonomy. It is also our task to lead their struggles in such a way so that they
can achieve their complete emancipation in the truest sense of the term.

25. The semi-colonial semi-feudal character of Indian society determines
that the Indian revolution would have to pass through two stages. The task of
first  stage  is  to  change  the  semi  -colonial  semi  -feudal  society  into  an
independent  new  democratic  society  through  the  resolution  of  the  two
fundamental contradictions of the present Indian society, i.e. the contradiction
of the Indian people with imperialism and the contradiction of the broad masses
with feudalism. Again, in its continuity, the task of second stage is to establish
the  socialist  system  and  continuing  the  revolution  advancing  towards
communism on a world scale. The first stage is the pre-condition for the second
stage. India will reach the socialist stage through the completion of democratic
revolution, and to reach socialism, it will have to pass through new democratic
revolution.

Our social system determines the stage of our revolution. Our country is
in  the  stage  of  democratic  revolution  whose  axis  and  content  is  agrarian
revolution. Since the proletarian class is in its leadership, therefore, it is not
the democratic revolution of the old type, but it is the new type of democratic
revolution, that is, new democratic revolution. This revolution is the part of
world  proletarian  revolution,  which  has  begun  with  the  Great  October
Revolution of Russia. This revolution, on the one hand, opens the path for
capitalism to some extent; on the other hand, it regulates it also and builds up
the necessary conditions for socialism.

oppressed castes are poor and face acute caste oppression in addition to the
class oppression. Casteism is used for derailing their actual struggles directed
against imperialism, feudalism and comprador bureaucrat capitalism.

Dalits are at the lowest rung of this casteist ladder facing acute social
oppression from all social categories above them, particularly from the feudal
forces. The inhuman practice of untouchability is still continuing and is being
maintained. Accordingly the dalits are being treated as second-rate citizens.
Even today 90 to 95 % from among them are either landless and poor peasants
or village labourers.

Even today their age-old struggles against feudal oppression and for getting
equal status in the society are being targeted and Dalits have become victim
of these vicious attacks by the feudal and fundamentalist Hindutva forces
patronized by the ruling classes and their state machinery. These attacks are
beings manifested in the form of massacres and en masse gang rapes.

Though the Dalit question is in essence a class question, the Party should
lead the struggle against caste oppression on Dalits and other backward castes
as a part of New Democratic Revolution and fight for their equal place in all
spheres  of  social  life  by  fighting  all  forms  of  caste  discrimination  and
oppression, towards abolishing the caste system.

The Party must fight for equal rights, reservations and other special
privileges for dalits and other backward castes. Simultaneously we must expose
the hollowness of the policies of the ruling class parties and the state on these
issues. We must also expose the opportunist dalit leaders who build their own
electoral fortunes in the name of taking up dalit issues. We must take up
struggles on these issues with our own independent programme, through our
mass  and  class  organisations,  without  forming  separate  caste-based
organisations. The Party should also have to carry on the struggle against
casteism and untouchability in the political, ideological and cultural spheres
until casteist thinking is entirely eradicated.

22. Since the emergence of class-divided society, women have become
the  victims  of  social,  economic,  cultural  and  political  discrimination  and
deprivation of various types. These  obnoxious traditions are, in the main, still
continuing.  Constituting  half  the  population  of  our  country  women  are
subjected to male domination and suppression through patriarchal institutions
like family, caste system, property relations and culture in addition to the

22

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

19

imperialist feudal exploitation and oppression. Even though, they are entitled
to own the property legally, but in  actual practice this right has proved to be a
hoax. Although women have increasingly come into the production sphere,
they are among the least paid and are confined to gender-based occupations
apart from harassments of all sorts at the work place. Sexual harassment and
atrocities on women have increased in recent years, particularly because of
imperialist globalization, liberalization and consumerism. Besides, female-
male  ratio  has  decreased  due  to  discriminatory  practices  against  women
resulting from patriarchal ideology. The ruling classes’ attempts of fanning
communalism and fundamentalism, particularly Hindu fundamentalism, have
further intensified their sufferings. Rape is being used as a weapon to counter
rightful assertion by women. This weapon is also used by the state as a most
vile repressive measure against the women emerging in various struggles.
Private armies of the feudal forces, backed by various parties of the ruling
classes including the state, also use the weapon of rape as a vicious method of
suppression.

‘Women represent half the sky’. Without unleashing the pent-up fury of
women as a mighty force of revolution, victory in revolution is impossible. It
is a matter of some satisfaction that the women masses, particularly from
among the poor and landless peasants are increasingly coming forward to
take an active and sometime front-ranking role in the advancing armed agrarian
revolution. Hence the mobilization of women in advancing people’s war against
imperialism and feudalism is a must. Besides the class-struggle we have to
carry on struggle in political, economic, ideological and cultural sphere for
equal rights of women. Real equality between men and women can be realized
only in the course of the new democratic revolution and further in the process
of socialist transformation of society as a whole. Hence, our party must pay
special attention on rousing, mobilizing, organizing and helping the women
to come forward to join the various ongoing struggles, particularly the people’s
war, and the revolutionary women’s organization. We must also concentrate
upon developing staunch and farsighted communist leaders from among them.
23. In India under the deceptive name and garb of secularism, Hindu
communalism  continues  to  hold  sway.  Almost  all  the  ruling  class  parties
continue to use the state machinery in fanning this communalism. The pro-
Hindu bias of the Indian state is openly expressed on certain occasions. This

communalism is not only directed against religious and other minorities but
also against the Dalit sections of the society including Adivasis and women.
This  communalism  is  also  used  in  fanning  Brahmanism,  casteism  and
patriarchal mentality.

The religious minorities constitute 15 percent of the Indian population.
They are victims of the discrimination, harassment and cruel oppression being
perpetrated by the ruling classes through fanning Hindu communalism by
even using their state machinery. The Hindu Fascist Gangs, quite often organize
anti-minority pogroms in a systematic way in order to impose the communalistic
concept of Hindutva. The main focus of these attacks has been the Muslims.
The ruling classes have used Hindu Communalism as an effective tool to
divide  the  toiling  people  on  religious  grounds.  Hindu  Communalism  has
emerged as an important ideological and political plank for the establishment
of fascism in the country.

The party should oppose, expose and fight against the growing threat of
these Hindu fundamentalist forces ideologically, politically and also fight
against them at the local level by adopting all the appropriate means. At the
same  time  we  must  also  continue  to  expose  the  fundamentalism  of  other
religions. But we must be clear that the real purpose of the chieftains of the
Hindu fundamental forces is to divide and divert the people’s attention from
their growing upsurges and thus blunt their class consciousness. Hence, the
party must continue to focus its attention in advancing the actual class struggle,
that is, the protracted people’s war, which will finally put an end to this threat.
24. About 7% of India’s population consists of Adivasis or tribes. Their
economy, social system and cultural characteristics are significantly different
from those of the rest of the population. Most adivasis are in the process of
developing as nationalities and the overwhelming majority of them are the
most suppressed and repressed sections of the Indian society. Vast majority of
the adivasis have long been deprived of their land and other traditional means
of livelihood without providing any alternative. The forest produce and mineral
resources, which were traditionally in their possession, are being forcibly taken
away by the imperialists, the CBB, the feudal classes, money lenders and
usurers, unscrupulous traders, bureaucrats, and other exploiters mainly from
outside, resulting in the disintegration of their traditional economy. The mining,
quarrying, other industrial activity and building up of big dams devastated

20

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

21

of inequalities suffered by women. It will rehabilitate the women
engaged in prostitution and will provide them social recognition.
(xi) This state will ensure various forms of autonomy to all Adivasi
communities  for  their  full-fledged  development  and  execute
special policies accordingly.

(xii)  It  will  unite  the  country  on  the  basis  of  equal  dignity  of  the
nationalities  recognizing  their  right  of  self-determination,
including the right to secession. It will establish a voluntary union
of People’s Democratic Federal Republics of India.

(xiii) It will put an end to all social inequalities based on religion and to
the persecution of religious minorities. It will execute special
policies for their socio-economic development. It will ensure the
genuine secularism of the state and will prevent the use of religion
for political purposes. It will put an end to the interference of the
state in religious affairs. It will guarantee personal freedom to
believe and not to believe religion. This state will encourage a
scientific and rationalist outlook to eradicate superstition and blind
faith and will oppose all types of religious fundamentalism.

(xiv) It will establish the revolutionary new democratic culture in place
of the decadent feudal, colonial and imperialist culture, and on
this basis, broadens the path of socialist culture. It will continue
its march in the direction of realizing communist culture.

(xv) It will abolish the present educational system and in its place it
will  introduce  a  scientific  democratic  and  socialist  mass
educational system by linking it with production in accordance
with the needs of democratic India.

(xvi)  The  state  will  give  equal  status  to  the  languages  of  all  the
nationalities. It will help in the development of languages without
scripts. It will not impose any language on other nationalities in
the name of national language or link language or in any other
form, but it will try to bring forth a generally acceptable language
based on unanimity.

(xvii) It will move towards the elimination of the regional imbalances

through special efforts to develop the backward regions.

later. Today, all the parliamentary institutions and parliamentary system itself,
including all the parliamentary parties of the ruling classes, stand exposed
before the people more than ever. Hence any idea of exposing it by using it is
itself an illusion.

In fact, the tactics of participation in the election in the name of using it is
tantamount to abandoning the tasks of building and advancing the armed
struggle. Reality is that without people’s political power everything is illusion.
The people’s political power can be established and advanced only through
the path of protracted people’s war. Parliamentary path and participation in
the elections are completely incompatible with Protracted peoples war in the
concrete conditions of India. Even the advancement of real people’s political
consciousness is closely linked with it. More so, the accumulation of forces,
including the development and Bolshevization of the party itself are inseparably
linked with it. That is why the armed struggle is the ‘centre of gravity’ of the
Party’s work as comrade Mao stated. In this overall context, the slogan of
‘Boycott Election’, though a question of tactics, acquires the significance of
strategy in the concrete conditions of India. It is also correct to raise the slogan
‘Boycott Election is a Democratic Right’ on a mass scale.

28. India is a semi-colonial, semi-feudal country with uneven development.
Its vast majority is peasantry and there are vast backward rural areas where
the class contradictions are relatively sharp, where the democracy is actually
absent and where the enemy and his state machinery are comparatively weak.
Our class enemies-imperialism, comprador big bourgeoisie and feudalism-
have built up their strong bases in big cities where their armed state machinery
is very strong. In such a situation, the party of the proletariat has no other way
but to take the path of protracted people’s war, just as in China, to advance the
revolution towards victory i.e. to liberate the rural areas first and then having
expanded the base areas-the centre of democratic power in rural areas- advance
towards countrywide victory through encircling and capturing the cities.

It is only by building up the people’s liberation army as the armed power
of the people, by expanding and developing the guerilla war, we can establish
the guerilla zones and the base areas in strategically favourable areas. In those
areas we have to arouse, organise and arm the vast peasant masses on the
basic slogan of the agrarian revolution, ‘Land to the tillers and political
power to the revolutionary people’s committees!’

32

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

25

For this it will be necessary to smash the state machinery and all other
centres of  power of the ruling classes thoroughly  and build up the democratic
power  of  the  people  based  on  worker-peasant  alliance.  In  this  way,  our
revolution will follow the path of the Chinese Revolution.

29. Due to the distinctive socio-economic development of our country,
urban struggles are also very important, particularly those of the working class.
Due to the phenomenal growth of public and private sector, service sector and
various administrative departments after the transfer of power, there is a huge
increase in the urban population, particularly the working class. Working class
in the organised and unorganised sectors constitutes near about seven crores.
The Indian working class is one of the oldest among the underdeveloped
backward countries. The industrial proletariat was born in India with the setting
up of industries during the second half of the 19th century. It has a glorious
history of struggles and rich experience of work in advanced scientific and
organised industries. Moreover, their number has largely increased. Majority
of them come from the peasantry and hence they have strong ties and influence
on each other. They have rich experience in launching and leading many
struggles, including All India strikes. Hence, they are a formidable strength,
which can give serious blows to imperialism, feudalism and CBB.

However,  because  of  the  betrayal  and  conspiracies  of  the  revisionist
leadership the working class movement mainly continues to remain confined
in the boundaries of economism, reformism and legalism. A small section in
the working class comprising trade union bureaucrats, who also get bribes
from the employers, has also emerged. Our party has to oppose, expose and
fight out revisionism and the revisionist leadership along with various forms
of economism and reformism; only then the fertile ground for implanting
genuine revolutionary class consciousness among the workers can be laid and
powerful working class movement can be built and advanced. The working
class will exercise its leadership over the new democratic revolution through
its party. It will play its leading role through building such a movement along
with launching struggles on different domestic and international issues. It will
also launch militant actions in solidarity and support of the revolutionary
struggles of the classes, specially the peasant’s struggles and also by sending
its class conscious advanced detachments to organise and advance the armed
struggle of the peasantry in rural areas by joining the communist party leading

Along with this, it will put an end to the exploitation of usurers, traders
and merchants, encourage the co-operatives to make available the
necessary capital to the people and will take control upon the trade
and business.

 (iv) The state will ensure ecological balance and environmental norms

while developing the industrial economy of the country.

(v)  It  will  protect  small  industries,  restrict  and  regulate  medium
industries, that is, the industry of national bourgeoisie class, help
the growth of the cottage industries and handicrafts by developing
co-operatives  and  will  improve  the  conditions  of  handicrafts,
workers and artisans.

(vi) It will put an end to all heavy taxes and various repayments, abolish
the present tax system and will enforce a well-systematized and
simple tax system.

(vii) This state will enforce the eight hour working day, increase wage
rates, abolish the contract labour system and child labour, provide
social security and safe working condition and will eliminate wage
discrimination on the basis of gender by guaranteeing equal pay
for equal work.

(viii) It will ensure the right to work as a fundamental right and will
advance towards the elimination of unemployment. This state will
enforce the unemployment allowance and social insurance and will
ensure better living condition for the people.

(ix) It will abolish caste discrimination and disparity and will move
towards the complete elimination of untouchability and the caste
system  as  a  whole.  Till  then  it  will  ensure  special  privileges
including reservations for the upliftment of Dalits and all socially
oppressed castes.

(x) It will move towards the abolition of all types of discrimination
against  women  and  will  strive  to  end  male  domination  and
patriarchy. This state will liberate women from the confinement of
domestic  work  and  will  ensure  their  participation  in  social
production and other activities. It will guarantee their equal rights
in property. It will promote special policies for the speedy removal

26

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

31

defeating it. Hence the Indian proletariat must fight against both Right and
‘Left’ opportunism in advancing the class struggle and the revolutionary war.
The party, having drawing lesson from the past revolution, and later, from the
restoration of capitalism in Russia and China, it is necessary to uphold the
relevance of the most modern experiences of the GPCR particularly in the
struggle against revisionism. Thus it has to build unity with all the genuine
Marxist-Leninist-Maoist parties, groups and forces in the world today. It also
has to establish unity with the proletariat, oppressed nations and oppressed
people of the whole world. By uniting with them and through the practice of
learning from each other, it forms part of the global struggle to eliminate
imperialism and counter revolutionary forces from the world.

34. The people’s democratic state will carry out the following tasks:-

(i) It will confiscate all the banks, business enterprises and companies
of imperialist capital and abrogate all imperialist debt. It will nullify
all unequal treaties and agreements with imperialist countries.

(ii) This state will confiscate all enterprises’ capital and movable and
immovable properties of the comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie.
On the basis of the principle of controlling capital the state will
have  to  take  over  the  authority  and  administration  of  all  the
monopoly industries and trade. The New Democratic state will not
appropriate  other  personal  properties  and  will  not  obstruct  the
development of the capitalist production, which will have no power
to control the public life.

(iii) It will confiscate all land belonging to the landlords and religious
institutions and will redistribute it among the landless poor peasants
and agricultural labourers on the slogan of ‘land to the tillers’. It
will ensure equal rights for women over land. It will cancel all
debts of the middle peasants and other toiling people, along with
these classes. It will ensure all facilities for the growth of agriculture;
will  ensure  remunerative  prices  for  agricultural  products  and
encourage  and  promote  the  development  of  agricultural  co-
operatives  wherever  possible.  Thus  taking  agriculture  as  the
foundation,  it  will  advance  towards  building  strong  industrial
economy.

this armed struggle .

Apart from the working class, a large section of this population of the
urban  poor  and  petty-bourgeoisie,  such  as,  students,  youth,  intellectuals,
artisans, professionals, middle class employees etc. are residing in the urban
areas. Their number is also increasing. Students, youth and intellectuals have
a rich tradition of struggle also.

The working class and its party would organize them in class struggle.
We should build a strong anti-imperialist, anti-feudal movement in favour of
agrarian revolution. All these movements would have to be oriented towards
the  agrarian  revolution  directly  or  indirectly,  and  co-ordinated  with  and
complimentary  in  serving  that  struggle.  The  struggle  should  continue  to
advance by co-ordinating with the armed agrarian revolutionary war.

Since we have to capture the big cities, that is, the fortresses of the enemy,
during the last phase of the New Democratic Revolution, Our party has to
carry on target-oriented work in the cities from the very beginning. Only then
we can achieve that victory. It means firstly, that we have to build a vast and
well-entrenched  underground  network  of  the  party  and  also  other  mass
organizations among the working class and other toiling sections of the people
along with students and intellectuals. Secondly, we also have to build the
needful net-work of the military organization secretly by avoiding decisive
battles, thereby preserving our forces. Only through such a target-oriented
work we can accumulate, strengthen and continue to consolidate our forces
and thereby carry on political organizational and military preparations on a
mass scale, in the due course of time. The most important aspect of our work
in the big cities is that it should not be carried out in isolation and the principle
of doing “everything for war” should be strictly kept in the forefront during
all of our activities.

30. The peasantry is the main force in the democratic revolution carried
out under the leadership of the proletariat. Relying on the landless poor peasants
and agricultural workers, the working class will firmly unite with the middle
peasants and win over a section of rich peasants while neutralizing the rest. It
will be only a small section of the rich peasants that joins with the enemies of
revolution. In our country, urban petty-bourgeoisie class and middle class
revolutionary intellectuals are revolutionary forces and their vast majority will
become the faithful ally of the revolution. Middle traders and the small and

30

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

27

middle bourgeoisie, who are national bourgeoisie in nature, are a vacillating
and provisional ally of the revolution, accompany it to a certain extent, and at
certain times.

To advance the democratic revolution till victory it is necessary to build a
united front comprising all these classes i.e. the four-class united front-the
working class, peasantry, petty bourgeoisie and national bourgeoisie-under
the leadership of working class based upon worker-peasant alliance. It should
unite all the oppressed nationalities, persecuted religious minorities and other
oppressed social sections in the course of advancing the armed struggle for
the seizure of political power.

31.  In  India,  the  genuine  revolutionary  forces,  representing  the
revolutionary  ranks,  continued  their  struggle  against  the  opportunistic,
erroneous  and  then  the  revisionist  lines  and  treachery  of  the  dominant
leadership of the CPI, and thereafter the CPI(M), from the very beginning.
But during the late 50’s and 60’s, this struggle assumed a completely new
dimension. The Great Debate against modern revisionism conducted by the
CPC led by comrade Mao Tse-tung, marked this new beginning. So far as this
Great Debate continued to intensify further and further and finally culminated
in the earthshaking GPCR, so this struggle also continued to intensify further
and further towards the breaking point. The beginning of the GPCR proved to
be a new turning point in this process. Under the direct impact of this process
the forces representing the struggle against revisionism of the then leadership
of the CPI and then CPI(M) began to uphold and assimilate Marxism-Leninism-
Mao Tse-tung Thought, now Maoism, both in theory and more particularly in
their revolutionary practice. Thereby a large number of Maoist forces including
the most outstanding and front-ranking leaders like comrade C.M. and K.C.
emerged on the scene, condemning the 7th congress programme of CPI(M) as
revisionist. The great Naxalbari revolt led by com. Charu Majumdar in May
1967, proved to be a clarion call of “spring thunder over India”. Thereafter,
the history of the communist movement took a qualitatively new turn. Besides
finally breaking from and greatly exposing revisionism, it marked the first
conscious application of M-L-M and the seizure of political power through
the shining path of the protracted people’s war, already illuminated by comrade
Mao Tse-tung, in the Indian sub-continent also.

Although the movement suffered a temporary setback, it began to advance

once again under the leadership of the CPI(ML) and the MCCI, traversing
through several ups and downs, taking lessons from the past, and bravely
resisting the enemy repression. These two streams of the Maoist revolutionary
forces continued the legacy of all that is revolutionary in the Indian communist
movement by basing on a correct revolutionary line and waging a relentless
struggle against revisionism of various hues.

The new Party—CPI (Maoist)—as the consolidated vanguard of the Indian
proletariat, will lead the New Democratic Revolution in India to victory and
persevere until the establishment of Socialism and Communism on a world
scale.

32. To achieve victory in revolution, these are the three magic weapons
which would have to be built and strengthened step by step from the very
beginning.

(i) A strong revolutionary party based on Marxism-Leninism-Maoism as
its guiding ideological basis in all matters; that is well-disciplined
and built up through revolutionary style and method; that is based on
democratic centralism; that links the theory with practice; practises
criticism and self-criticism; is closely integrated with the masses and
relies firmly upon them; and stands firmly on the class line, mass line
and armed struggle.

(ii) A strong and well-disciplined people’s army under the leadership of
such a party; primarily our people’s army will be built through the
armed  agrarian  revolution  mainly  from  among  the  landless  poor
peasants, agricultural labourers and the working class.

(iii) A united front of all revolutionary classes under the leadership of the
proletariat  based  worker-peasant  alliance  and  on  the  general
programme of people’s democratic revolution. This united front will
be built in the course of advancing the armed struggle and for the
seizure of political power through armed struggle.

33.  The  vanguard  of  the  Indian  proletarian  class,  the  revolutionary
communist party of India stands by proletarian internationalism. Revisionism,
particularly right-wing opportunism, is the main danger for world proletarian
revolution and international communist movement today. One could not move
a single step forward towards revolution in any country without fighting and

28

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

29

(xviii) The new state will establish people’s political power through
revolutionary  people’s  committees,  and  people’s  governing
councils at all levels, according to and on the basis of a People’s
Democratic Constitution. Every citizen reaching the age of 18
years, except the arch reactionaries, shall have the right to elect,
to be elected and to recall the elected representatives at all levels.
It will ensure democratic rights to all people, such as right to
speech, to assemble, to association including the right to strike
and  demonstration.  It  will  ensure  this  right  of  the  masses  in
exercising their control over the state power and resist any attempt
to belittle this right.

(xix) It will implement a just judicial process and system with the
purpose of rectifying all on the basis of a progressive, democratic
and people’s oriented outlook.

(xx) It will arm the people for the country’s defence. It will re-settle the
families of the martyrs and soldiers of the PLA according to their
need and give them land.

(xxi)  It  will  provide  appropriate  economic  and  social  security  and
healthy socio-cultural environment to the physically handicapped,
the mentally handicapped, the aged and orphans and all others
suffering from disabilities. It will also introduce a mass oriented
medical system that will ensure good health and free treatment
for all, particularly for workers and peasants and other toiling
people.

(xxii) This state will try its best to peacefully and fairly settle border,
water and other disputes with neighbouring countries and will
develop friendly relations with them. This state will never exert
any expansionist behaviour with the neighbouring countries.

(xxiii) This state will follow the five principles in its relation with the
countries  having  different  social  systems-mutual  respect  for
territorial integrity and sovereignty; mutual non-aggression; non-
interference in each other internal affairs; equality and mutual
benefit; and peaceful co-existence.

(xxiv)  This  People’s  Democratic  State  will  establish  unity  with

PARTY PROGRAMME

33

and suffering of crores of our beloved people by completing the people’s
democratic revolution. It further pledges to follow class line and mass line in
every respect and be ever vigilant towards the conspiracies and nefarious
intrigues of the imperialists and modern revisionists and march forward to
ultimately abolish exploitation and oppression by continuing the revolution
under the dictatorship of the proletariat and marching forward to socialism
and then communism on a world scale.

_________

subversion and interference etc. It will support and help by all
means  the  revolutionary  struggles  and  revolutionary  war,
especially the ongoing struggles under the leadership of various
Maoist revolutionary forces against capitalism, imperialism and
reaction the world over. After the victory of the revolution new
democratic, and later, socialist India will act as a Base in order to
facilitate the victory of the world socialist revolution. It will closely
integrate  with  the  revolutionary  and  Maoist  forces  and  their
struggles in South Asia in particular, keeping in view the historical
relations of India with the people of the sub-continent.

35. Our party is placing the programme of New Democratic Revolution
of India before the people and dedicates itself to this great revolutionary cause.
It sets to itself the task of achieving socialism. Our ultimate goal is communism.
After the People’s Democratic Revolution, the production relations will be
revolutionized step by step, in the process of removing the class distinction
between exploiter and the exploited. It will continue to move forward by
continuing the revolution under the dictatorship of the proletariat and thereby
continue to consolidate the socialist society as a strong base area for the world
proletarian  revolution.  This  socialist  state  will  be  the  dictatorship  of  the
proletariat, which will guarantee democracy for the vast majority of the people
while exercising dictatorship on the handful of the exploiters. There will be
classes, class contradictions and class struggles even in socialist society, in
accordance  with  the  principles  of  Marxism-Leninism-Maoism  of
uninterruptedly  continuing  the  revolution  under  the  dictatorship  of  the
proletariat. It will continue to advance the proletarian cultural revolution and
through it fight and defeat every attempt by imperialism, modern revisionism
and  capitalist  roaders  to  restore  capitalism.  Through  this  process,  it  will
continue the struggle against any deformities introduced in the socialist system
especially against bureaucracy and thereby continue to ensure that people
participate in the state and are not alienated from either socialist state or the
proletarian party. It will have to creatively eliminate the remaining inequalities
and solve the contradictions that exist within socialist society and, in the
process,  move  towards  the  elimination  of  class  society  and  thereby  the
withering away of the state, i.e. towards communism on a world scale.

This party pledges to fulfil its duty of putting an end to the endless misery

34

PARTY PROGRAMME

PARTY PROGRAMME

35

