COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

18 June, 2011 
 
Make success the protest week from July 4th to 11th in the Central Region! 

Press Release

 

The Army Training School in Narayanpur district ( in Maad area) 

should be immediately scrapped ! 

 

The Indian Army is establishing a counter-guerilla training school in a sprawling area of 750 sq.kms  
in Narayanpur district of Chhattisgarh. This area is home to an ancient Adivasi community. Since two 
decades the government has been citing that these Adivasis are becoming an extinct human society. At 
present,  establishing an army centre in a vast expanse of this area means speeding up of this process. 
Since  five  years  the  Chhattisgarh  government  has  been  propagating  that  top  Maoist  leaders  are  taking 
shelter in these mountains and that they are openly carrying out their activities and had turned this into a 
military camp. Since two years the brutal Operation Green Hunt has been unleashed by it here. Due to the 
establishment of the Army training camp the very existence of the  Adivasis here  will be put  in severe 
peril. In fact, looting the valuable mineral resources from these areas is their actual goal behind all this. 
People are  vehemently opposing  this. Now  army  has  been  deployed  as  part  of suppressing  this severe 
protest.  Our  party  is  severely  condemning  this.  Our  party  is  calling  upon  the  people  to  intensify  mass 
struggles against this. 

Our party is calling upon the people to make success the protest week to be observed in Central 
Region,  i.e.,  in  Chhattisgarh,  Andhra  Pradesh,  Maharashtra,  Andhra  Pradesh-Odisha  border  area  from 
July 4th to 11th demanding the immediate scrapping of the Army training school in Maad area. Our party 
is  appealing  to  the  entire  Indian  masses,  democrats  and  well-wishers  of  Adivasis  to  make  success  this 
protest week.  

Our  party  is  appealing  to  the  Indian  Army  jawans  not  to  make  war  on  Adivasi  people  for  the 
interests of the exploitative ruling classes. We are appealing to them not to carry on  firings on Adivasi 
people in the name of Maoists.  
 
 

     

 
 
 
(Pratap)    
Spokesperson, 
 
Central Regional Bureau 
 
CPI (Maoist) 

 
 
 

 

 

     
 

 
 
(Abhay) 
           Spokesperson, 
    Central Committee, 
    CPI (Maoist) 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

