COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 
DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release 

June 20, 2011 
OBSERVE PROTEST WEEK FROM JULY 4-11 THROUGHOUT CENTRAL REGION 
IN PROTEST OF ARMY DEPLOYMENT IN BASTAR IN THE GUISE OF TRAINING! 

DEFEAT GOVERNMENT'S CONSPIRACIES THAT WOULD IMPERIL 
THE CULTURE AND EXISTENCE OF ADIVASI COMMUNITIES!! 

The  process  of  deployment  of  Army  in  the  ongoing  countrywide  repressive  campaign  -  Operation  Green 
Hunt has now started which has been initiated by the ruling clique of Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram with the 
aim of wiping out the ongoing revolutionary movement in our country. At present, Army columns were sent only 
into  Bastar  region  ingeniously  in  the  name  of  setting  up  'training  schools'.  When  the  blue  print  for  this  'well-
coordinated action' was prepared by the rulers, it was decided to deploy the Army as an option. For this Odisha-
Chhattisagarh sub-area command was setup under the Army's central command. 1800 acres of land was acquired 
from the peasants of Chakarbhatha village near Bilaspur to establish the brigade headquarters and Special Forces 
training center. About 350 acres of land is being acquired forcefully at Nandini village near Bhilai for building an 
Air Base for the Air Force. Defense and Law ministries have issued 'guiding principles' that empower the Army to 
take on Maoists. But the Army officers are issuing statements in a dramatic way that they were coming here for 
not any action on Maoists, but for training. Their confidence is that the people are fools enough to believe this as 
true! 

For the sake of argument, even if it's true that their job here is only to get training, the big question is what 
the  purpose  of  this  'training'  exactly  is!  To  kill  whom?  Why  have  they  hatched  the  conspiracy  of  displacing 
thousands  of  Adivasis  from  their  jungles  and  mountains?  Who  is  the  enemy  here?  Why  Raman  Singh's 
government has gifted away 750 sq km (more than 185,250 acres) area to the Army? Whom to fight with? If the 
governments are not 'deploying' the Army, as they are asking us to believe, then why are they  maintaining so 
secrecy in this process? How many villages are going to be displaced with this enormous land acquisition? How 
many  thousands  of  people  are  going  to  be  rendered  homeless?  Why  are  they  not  speaking  any  thing  clear 
regarding this? Where have all the laws gone which were supposedly made to prohibit land transfer in tribal areas 
and to protect the interests of Adivasis? Why are they abusing the laws like 5th schedule and PESA so arbitrarily? 
No minister, no leader or no bureaucrat has any answers for these questions. 

Now  the  Army's  top  brass  are  issuing  threatening  statements  that  they  would  eliminate  the  Maoists 
completely if they were attacked. They're saying that their attack would be more devastative when compared to 
police and CRPF. Message is clear - They would penetrate into deep forests. They would drive away the people 
from  their  forests,  mountains  and  lands.  They  would  attack  villages  to  prevent  the  potential  threat  of  being 
'attacked' by Maoists. They would perpetrate atrocities on the people. But even then, nobody should resist this! If 
anybody resists, they would carry out 'devastative' attacks! The inherent meaning of their rhetoric is very clear! 
But the top officials of Indian Army and their masters sitting in New Delhi are mistaking one simple fact that the 
American Army which is far superior to the Indian Army was defeated in the hands of Vietnamese people who are 
a  most  backward nation than India. They are away from the fact  that despite millions Army deployment, they 
could not suppress the people of Kashmir and the North East. They are forgotten the recent history of how the 
Indian Army was thrashed at the hands of the Tamil freedom fighters in Sri Lanka. They're not realizing that with 
the massive Army Deployment in the heartland against poorest people of the country, indeed they are trying to lift 
a huge rock which ultimately would fall on their own feet and crush them. 

Maad region with its 4,000 sq km area is the birthplace for Mariya Adivasi community which is one of the 
ancient  and  typical  tribal  communities.  Giving  away  750  sq  km  land  for  the  purpose  of  Army  training  means 
nothing  but  endangering  the  existence  of  a  huge  portion  of  this  population.  According  to  one  news  report 
published  in  a  newspaper,  51  villages  of  8  panchayats  would  completely  be  vanished  with  this.  In  fact  the 
government has shifted the fair price shops into the police stations before three years as part of their well-planned 
conspiracy in the pretext of preventing Maoists from getting food supplies from the people. Now poor people of 
this area are forced to travel as far as 60-70 km by foot to purchase minimum food items like rice, salt etc. Apart 
from this, now the residential schools from Maad area are being shifted by the administration to road side villages 
far away from where they are situated now. Thus, it can be said that the process of shifting the people of Maad 
region in a ploy is already underway. 

The  declaration  of  privatizing  Raoghat  mines  which  came  a  few  days  prior  to  sending  Army  troops  into 
Bastar was not just a coincidence. Actually this oppressive campaign being conducted by the ruling classes has 
direct  relation  with  the  plunder  of  natural  resources.  Hundreds  of  MoUs  signed  between  governments  and 

corporate  houses  in  all  parts  of  our  country  including  Dandakaranya  have  been  stuck  for  a  long  time  due  to 
people's resistance struggles. Particularly in the areas of Maoist movement so many destructive projects had to 
close down. As far as Bastar region is concerned, for the proposed steel plants of Tata and Essar the process of 
forceful land grab has not been started even after 6 years. The heroic people of Lohandiguda and Dhurli areas 
have taken the path of resistance and declared clearly and loudly that they would not give their land for the profits 
of exploiters and plunderers. In Chargaon of North Bastar area, despite of numerous attempts, the greedy NECO 
Jaiswaals' company has not been able to commence the mining work due to stiff resistance put by the local people. 
In Amdaimetta of Narayanpur district and in Chargaon near Bhanupratappur, the fighting people have hit back the 
mining contractors by saying 'NO' to the destruction to their Jal-Jungle-Zameen.  People are putting every effort 
at their disposal to prevent the construction of Raoghat railway line and Raoghat mining project. In the Pallamaad 
area of Rajnandgaon, as many mining companies have been unable to start their mining projects in face of mass 
resistance,  exploitative  governments  and  mining  mafia  are  suffering  thousands  of  million  of  rupees  of  profits. 
Bodhghat project has been stopped due to stiff resistance by the people as well. In one word, the juggernaut of 
dubious development is unable to keep on here. The Army deployment should be seen in this context only. 
OUR APPEAL TO THE SOLDIERS OF INDIAN ARMY: 
DON'T WAGE THE WAR AGAINST PEOPLE! GO BACK FROM BASTAR!! 

Oppressive ruling classes are deliberately misguiding both you and the public by bringing you here in the 
guise of 'training'. These people are not your enemies. Bastar is not any enemy country. The aim of the Maoist 
movement that is going on in several rural and forest areas apart from Bastar is to liberate this country from the 
exploitation and oppression of imperialists, feudal lords and comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie; and to achieve 
real  and  genuine  independence  of  our  beloved  country.  The  system  of  corrupt  leaders,  scamsters,  hoarders, 
brokers and corporate bandits including your top brass who leave no stone unturned to make huge sums of money 
in every deal in the defence sector, is the biggest hindrance for the real development of our country. If this system 
is not uprooted the toiling people will not be liberated the vast majority of whom has been struggling for meager 
two square meals. So, you do open your eyes and recognize who the real enemies are. Before aiming your guns at 
the people of your own country, particularly the poorest Adivasi poeple, do remember that to which families you 
belong.  Do  separate  yourselves  from  this  unjust  war  which  is  being  fought  in  the  interests  of  the  corporate 
vultures against the poorest people of our country. We expect you to not to get killed the way those police, CRPF 
and CoBRA forces are losing their lives due to the people's armed resistance who have been perpetrating worst 
kind of atrocities, terror and murders on the people. 
OUR  APPEAL  TO  THE  TOILING  MASSES,  JUSTICE-LOVING  AND  PEACE-LOVING 
PEOPLE OF THE COUNTRY AND ABROAD: 

Do register your protest to the deployment of Army in Bastar. Do oppose the proposed forceful land grab in 
the name of Army training that would endanger the very existence of the vast masses of the Adivasis of Bastar, 
the Mariya community in particular. Do express your solidarity to the just struggles of Bastar people. Do take up 
agitations in protest of land acquisition in the name of 'training'. Do oppose and resist in all possible ways. Do 
raise the slogan 'Indian Army, Go Back' in one voice. 
OUR APPEAL TO THE FIGHTING PEOPLE OF DANDAKARANYA: 

Your struggle for the right over 'Jal-Jungle-Zameen' has the history of two hundred years. In your glorious 
history  of  the  past,  you  had  fought  a  number  of  revolts  and  struggles.  You  never  bowed  your  heads  before 
injustice, atrocity, exploitation and oppression. You have the magnificent inheritance of struggles and revolts. You 
should fight back this unjust war of oppressive rulers and Army deployment in this war only through your broader 
and  militant  struggles.  We  can  resist  the  impending  attacks  of  Army  only  through  organized,  enormous  and 
militant resistance. The people's army - People's Liberation Guerilla Army will spearhead this resistance from the 
front. 

Central Regional Bureau of CPI (Maoist) has called upon the people of our country to observe protest week 
from July 4 to 11 in Central Region, i.e. in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and AOB zone, opposing 
the Army deployment in Bastar, the proposed Army training schools and the massive land grab. Dandakaranya 
Special  Zonal  Committee  of  CPI  (Maoist)  calls  upon  the  people,  Party  and  PLGA  ranks  and  all  mass 
organizations to organize meetings, processions, road blocks and all other protest programs on this occasion as 
part of this. It appeals to one and all to take up a massive propaganda through posters, pamphlets and banners so 
that the slogan 'Indian Army, Go Back from Bastar' is reverberated throughout the country. 

 

 
(Gudsa Usendi) 
Spokesperson 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee 
CPI (Maoist) 

