 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 
Press Release: March 14, 2010 
 

 

Red Salutes to Maoist leaders comrades Sakhamuri Appa Rao (Ravi) and 

Kondal Reddy (Ramana)! Let us avenge the cold-blooded murder of 

our beloved leaders by Chidambaram and his lawless goons! 

 

Let us build country-wide wave of people’s struggles to sweep away 

the fascist regime led by Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram gang!! 

 
 
On March 12, 2010 a former state committee member of Andhra Pradesh and current incharge of military 
intelligence wing of CPI(Maoist), comrade Sakhamuri Appa Rao, and a district committee member, 
comrade Kondal Reddy (also known as Tech Ramana), were murdered in cold blood by the notorious 
goons belonging to Andhra Pradesh Special Investigation Bureau and the AP Grey Hounds. The two 
leaders were abducted two days earlier from Chennai and Pune respectively, cruelly tortured by these 
neo-Nazi mercenaries hired by the Indian State, and taken to the forests where they were shot dead. 
 
As usual, the story of an encounter was put forth by the government and the top police officials. As is the 
practice of the AP Grey Hounds and the SIB, the bodies were placed in the forests where these comrades 
had earlier worked—Comrade Sakhamuri Appa Rao’s body was thrown in Nallamala forest while that of 
Kondal Reddy in Eturnagaram forest in Warangal. Through these SIB-Grey Hounds-mark murders the 
reactionary rulers want to demonstrate to the people of these regions who were associated with the 
revolutionary movement for a long period of time, and amongst whom these leaders had once worked, 
that they will ruthlessly crush any revival of the revolutionary movement in these one-time hot-beds of 
revolution. The decision to murder these comrades was taken by fascist Chidambaram himself in order to 
create a reign of terror, boost up the morale of his mercenary forces, and to boast how his fascist state 
offensive is yielding results. But the Andhra Pradesh police and Chidambaram, who had been claiming all 
the while that Nallamala forest has been cleared of the Maoists, had not even thought how the so-called 
encounter with such a big Maoist leader in the Nallamala region would mock at their own claims of the 
past three years. The entire people know that Maoists had retreated from Nallamala almost three years 
ago but in their hastiness to complete their ghastly murder before civil rights and other organizations get 
alerted, the lawless police goons chose Prakasham district which is nearer to Chennai. 
 
Comrade Ravi had been to Chennai on some work on the 24th of February and was in touch with other 
comrades of the Party until two days prior to his murder. It is clear that he was abducted on March 10. 
Three more comrades are still illegally detained by the SIB and Grey Hounds. There is every danger that 
these would be murdered in cold blood. Comrade Ravi is one of the senior most leaders from Andhra 
Pradesh and hails from Khanapur area in Warangal district. He was elected as an alternate member of the 
AP State Committee of the Party in 1991. He was arrested in early 1993 and spent 7 1/2 years in prison 

 

1 

 

where he displayed extraordinary revolutionary mettle and led many struggles of the prisoners along with 
comrade Patel Sudhakar. He commenced his work as a member of the AP State Committee after his 
release in late 2000. He became a member of the State Military Commission and carried on his work in 
Nallamala forest region until 2006. Later, he guided the Party’s Intelligence department in AP and the 
Action Teams. He played a prominent role in planning and executing tactical counter-offensives against 
the police forces and attacks on political targets such as the one on the SP of Prakasham district in 2005 
and on former chief minister of AP, Janardhan Reddy, in 2007. 
 
Comrade Kondal Reddy hails from Medak district in South Telangana and has been working in the 
production department of the CPI (Maoist) in Andhra Pradesh for over a decade. He played an important 
role in the production and distribution of hand grenades and pressure mines. He never hesitated whenever 
any extremely risky work was allotted to him by the party leadership and was highly disciplined. 
 
The cold-blooded murders of these Maoist leaders are an integral part of the unprecedented fascist 
offensive unleashed by the central and state governments against the CPI (Maoist) in the name of 
Operation Green Hunt. While the chief objective of this brutal armed offensive is to create genocide of 
the adivasis and steal their lands and the forest-mineral wealth, the focus of this joint offensive led by the 
central forces under the direct supervision of fascist Chidambaram is to eliminate the Maoist leadership in 
the country. In a similar episode last may, comrade Patel Sudhakar, a member of the central committee of 
CPI (Maoist), was abducted and murdered in cold blood by the APSIB-Grey Hound goons. Central 
leaders like Ashutosh, Kobad Ghandy, Balraj and Chintanji were arrested and placed behind bars, along 
with several state Party leaders in the past one year. Popular mass leaders like Lalmohan Tudu of PCAPA 
are murdered in cold blood and Chhatradhar Mahato arrested on false charges. Even those who question 
police atrocities and the state’s brutal onslaught against innocent people, civil liberties and human rights 
activists, sincere Gandhians and other social activists, are not spared the rod. Private vigilante gangs are 
set up in all areas where the Maoist movement is strong and indiscriminate attacks are unleashed on 
unarmed adivasi people. 
 
Let us pay our red revolutionary homage to comrades Sakhamuri Appa Rao and Kondal Reddy by 
pledging to carry forward their cherished dreams with redoubled determination and relentless spirit. Let 
us vow to avenge their martyrdom by defeating the biggest country-wide brutal armed offensive 
unleashed by the comprador-feudal ruling classes backed by imperialists, transform PLGA into PLA, 
guerrilla war into mobile war, and guerrilla zones into base areas. Let us train up thousands of able Red 
successors to our beloved martyred leaders. Let us foil the desperate attempts by the reactionary rulers to 
deprive the Indian people and the CPI (Maoist) of their leadership by preserving our leading cadres and 
developing innumerable Maoist leaders from the oppressed masses of India.  
 
Azad,  
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee,  
CPI (Maoist) 
 
 
 

[From: People’s March, vol. 11, #3, May-June, 2010. We were unable to reproduce a photo which 

accompanied the statement there, which we believe to be that of Sakhamuri Appa Rao (Ravi).] 

 

2 

