COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

press statement 

Red homage to CPI (Maoist) Central Committee member  

Comrade Sridhar Srinivasan! 

 

 

and 

led 

agitations 

under 

students 

the 

banner 

organized 

in  Mumbai 

On August 18th 2015, the oppressed masses of our country and the Indian revolution lost an exemplary 
communist  leader  and  a  brilliant  revolutionary  intellectual—Comrade  Sridhar  Srinivasan—knownto  the 
revolutionary camp as Com. Vishnu and Vijay.He passed away after a massive heart attack. 
The CC, CPI(Maoist) pays its humble red homage to this  member of theCentral Committee and vows to 
fulfill the revolutionary ideals for which he lived and  laid down his life. 
 
His journey as a revolutionary 
It  was  in  1978-79,  as  a  young  student  of  Arts  in  Elphinstonecollege,  Mumbai,  Comrade  Sridhargot 
influenced  with  revolutionary  politics  and  gave  up  his  studies  to  work  for  the  oppressed  masses  of  the 
country.And  for  the  next  35  years,  he  continuedwith  undaunting  spirit  and  determination  to  serve  the 
people. 
Comrade  Sridhar  Srinivasan 
of 
VidharthiPragatiSanghatana(VPS).He was one of the leaders of the historical take- over of Mumbai University (against fee hike ) by 
the college students in 1979.When the movement spread to youths, he again played a prominent role in mobilising youths under the 
banner  of  Naujawan  Bharat  Sabha  (NBS).  Along  with  the  Mill  workers  Union,  led  by  DattaSamant,NBS  organized  the  workers 
during the mill workers’ strike in early 80s.He was among the key organizers of many militant actions during the strike period.He 
became  City  Committee  member  and  the  movement  expanded  to  nearby  industrial  areas  of  Thane,  Bhiwandi,  Surat,etc.  Later,  in 
1990,  on  party’s  decision,  he  moved  to  Vidharbha  region,  where  he  organized  coal  mine  workers  in  Chandrapur,Vaniand  nearby 
areas.When the party handed charge of Gondia-Balaghat division to Maharashtra State Committee, he took responsibility and strived 
to develop the movement with the Vidharbha perspective. 
For  over  two  decades  till  2007,  he  ably  led  the  party  as  the  State  Secretary  of  the  Maharashtra.He  was  elected  to  the  central 
committee of the CPI(Maoist) in 2001.He was reelected to the CC in the Unity Congress (9th Congress) held in January 2007.He 
stood steadfast in all the ups and downs the movement always defending the party line.He had unwavering confidence in the party 
and  its  line.  He  opposed  the  opportunist  trends  that  arose  in  the  party.  He  stood  firm  despite  the  movement  facing  adverse 
conditions.He never wavered and stood like a pillar infulfilling whichever responsibility the party entrusted him with.He stood as a 
great leader till his last breath with unwavering commitment to the revolution, steely determination and will power. 
 
Arrest and his jail life 
In August,2007, he got arrested. He faced days of interrogation, mental torturebut, he never bent before the enemy.The State tried its 
best to prolong his incarceration by foisting more than 60 cases and even managed to get a conviction of 6 ½ years in a fabricated 
case.While yearning for his freedom, he continued to educate and inspire young cadres who were in jail with him. Never to rest, he 
utilized the time, in reading books and studying national and international situation.He interacted with various Islamic activists and 
tried to understand their movement.Early  morning hours were spent in writing long letters and  politicalnotes on various issues, to 
comrades  in  different  jails.He  got  released  in  Aug,  2013.Jail  life  could  not  break  his  spirit  though  it  took  a  toll  on  his  health.On 
release,  he  stayed  with  his  family  and  utilized  this  time  in  meeting  and  propagating  about  the  movement.  He  waited  to  join  his 
comrades, but, on his way to meet them, he passed away. His wish remained unfulfilled.  
 
Comrade Sridhar’s martyrdom is a major blow to the movement.The proletariat and toiling masses of our countryhave lost one of 
their greatest sons who selflessly served them till his last breath, with nothing but their interests and the interests of the revolution in 
his  heart.  Comrade  Sridharwill  live  forever  in  the  hearts  of  the  Party’s  rank  and  file  and  millions  upon  millions  ofthe  Indian 
masses.Our party upholds the ideals of comrade Sridhar. It vows to fight relentlessly to fulfill his dreams. 
 
Our CC, CPI (Maoist) pays red homage to him with bowed heads. It is sending its deep condolences to his family and friends and 
shares their grief.  
 

Let us pledge ourselves once again to fulfill the great ideals for which Comrade Sridhar Srinivasan had laid down his life. 

 

 
(Abhay) 
spokesperson 
CC, CPI (MAOIST)  

