The Times of India 

We regret beheading Induvar: Maoist leader 

 
Mohua Chatterjee, TNN 6 November 2009, 12:51am IST 
 
 
NEW DELHI: For the first time since Maoist violence escalated and the government started a 
crackdown on them, CPI (Maoist) central committee (CC) member and the party’s spokesperson 
Azad replied to some questions. Justifying violence, he said it was in defence of the poor and 
unarmed but admitted that beheading of Francis Induvar was an abberration that would not be 
repeated . 
 
Excerpts:  
 
Maoists killed 20 policemen, most of them C-60 commandos, in Gadchiroli district. Is it not 
due to incidents like this which is provoking government to deploy huge forces in these 
areas?  
 
It is the other way round. It is because of indescribable atrocities perpetrated by specially-trained 
anti-naxal forces that we are compelled to carry out such attacks. If they do not harass the poor, 
unarmed adivasis, torture, murder and rape them, then why will our forces undertake such 
attacks? Every act of ours is in defence of the poor adivasis... Our attack in Laheri (Gadchiroli) 
should be seen as part of our fight against state terrorism.  
 
The growing opinion is that Maoists are resorting to senseless violence, innocent people are 
falling victims. The beheading of Special Branch inspector recently in Jharkhand... was it 
not a cruel act?  
 
It is hypocrisy on the part of those making such a big fuss about the plight of one Francis 
Induvar. They never speak of the thousands who had died in secret torture chambers maintained 
by the state flouting constitutional provisions. I assert that the case of Francis Induvar is an 
exception and not the rule. As for the act itself, we do not encourage such beheadings even if 
police carry out such brutalities. We will punish the enemy but there is no necessity for using 
cruel methods.  
 
When our guerrillas capture a cruel police officer, especially one who has been responsible for 
the murder of several of our comrades, there is bound to be serious reaction due to pent-up 
anger... We will educate our cadre so that such beheadings do not occur in future.  
 
We are aware that it is poor people who are forced to join the police force and we do not wish 
their families to be left grief-stricken. We too share the grief of Sunita Induvar and her children. 
But the rulers have compelled us to take up such actions for self-defence.  
 

How do you explain media reports that 6,000 people were killed in Maoist-related violence 
in six years?  
 
This is a part of the propaganda war and psychological war unleashed by the reactionary rulers.  
 

http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/We-regret-beheading-Induvar-Maoist-leader/articleshow/5201439.cms 

 

