 discussion

on the Election Boycott Tactic 
of the Maoists

Spokesperson, CPI (Maoist) 

A spokesperson of the Communist 
Party of India (Maoist) responds 
to Sumanta Banerjee’s critique of 
the party’s election boycott call 
in the recent Lok Sabha elections, 
and various other aspects of the 
party’s political practice. 

In  his  article  entitled  “The  Maoists, 

Elections,  Boycotts  and  Violence” 
(EPW, 2 May 2009), Sumanta Banerjee 
(SB) makes an attempt to analyse the boy-
cott call issued by the Communist Party of 
India (Maoist) [CPI(Maoist)] in the recently 
held Lok Sabha elections. This is based on 
the “Interview” of Azad, the spokesperson 
of the Central Committee of CPI(Maoist), 
which  appeared  in  Maoist  Information 
Bulletin No 7. SB begins his article with the 
following comment: 

The Lok Sabha elections were inau gurated 
with a fanfare of bomb blasts, killing of se-
curity personnel and poll officials, burning 
of polling sta tions, and a sensational hijack-
ing  of  a  train,  where  the  hostages  were 
served sattu and biscuits before being let off 
after about four hours! 

That even a shrewd political commen-
tator  and  progressive  intellectual  like  
SB was carried away by the propaganda 
let loose by sensation-craving commercial 
media shows how powerful the latter is in 
moulding  and  influencing  even  saner 
minds.  There  are  two  fabrications  in  
SB’s  above-quoted  remark.  Allow  me  to 
briefly explain. 

Trumped-up story
The  first  untruth  –  or  distortion,  if  one 
would like to call it so – is the so-called 
hijacking of the train. Either to sensation-
alise in order to add some colour to drab 
news stories, or with the evil intention of 
projecting  the  Naxalites  as  the  biggest 
threat to internal security and thereby to 
provoke  the  rulers  to  raise  and  deploy 
more  central  forces  in  Maoist  areas,  the 
media intentionally magnified and exag-
gerated  the  incident.  A  mass  protest  in 
which a few hundred people stopped the 
passenger  train  proceeding  from  Barka-
khana to Mughalsarai at Hehegada station 
in Latehar district of Jharkhand for four 
hours is made into a sensational hijack! If 

Economic & Political Weekly  EPW   september 19, 2009  vol xliv no 38

one news channel flashes the news thus, 
no  other  such  channel  wants  to  be  left 
behind and the story goes on and on, non-
stop  for  24,  48  or  even  more  hours,  de-
pending on the interest it generates among 
the  viewers.  Who  first  propagated  this 
sensational news is not known but in no 
time  it  spread  like  wildfire  with  every 
news  channel  and  newspaper  jumping 
into the fray and making even independ-
ent thinkers like SB their prey. Even if one 
gave a little thought to the meaning of the 
word  “hijacking”  one  would  not  become 
such  an  easy  prey  to  the  media  sharks. 
From where had the Maoists hijacked the 
train? Had they diverted it from its usual 
route  by  forcing  the  driver  or  guard?  If 
not, how could one describe this as hijack-
ing? Let us ask SB: If stopping a train by 
hundreds of people squatting on the rail-
way  tracks  is  termed  as  hijacking,  then, 
what term would you use to describe the 
seizure and forcible diversion of a train by 
a handful of armed people? 

It must be emphasised that the so-called 
hijacking by protestors who stopped the 
train by squatting on the tracks for four 
hours  is  not  related  in  any  way  to  the  
call for boycott of elections issued by the 
Central Committee of CPI(Maoist). As made 
clear by the spokesperson of our party in 
Jharkhand  soon  after  the  incident,  the 
protest  was  organised  as  part  of  the 
bandh demanding a judicial enquiry into 
the  brutal,  cold-blooded  murders  of  five 
village youth by the Central Reserve Police 
Force (CRPF) personnel in Badhania village 
that  falls  under  Barwadih  PS  in  Latehar 
district.  The  five  youth  were  picked  up 
within an hour after the mine blast trig-
gered by Maoist guerrillas killed two CRPF 
men on the morning of the 16th of April. 
The villagers were shot dead within two 
hours after the CRPF had lost its men in the 
ambush  by  Maoists.  The  fake  encounter 
generated  widespread  protests  through-
out the state for almost a week in some 
places. The top police brass had to publicly 
concede that it was a fake encounter and 
by the end of the month three top police 
officials were removed from their posts as 
a  direct  fallout  of  this  brutal  incident. 
Thus, at least now it should be clear that 
the  train  was  held  up  in  Hehegada  by  
73

discussion

unarmed protestors to object against the 
fake encounter, and not, let us repeat, for 
boycott of polls. 

SB appears to be quite relieved that the 

Maoists had 

physically tar geted only the candidates and 
the  state’s  representatives  –  the  security 
forces, the poll officials – and thankfully re-
frained from attacking the voters who came 
in large numbers (often representing 50 to 
60% of the electorate in these areas). 

But  here  again  he  displays  a  sense  of 
cynicism  and  states  this  as  if  it  was  the 
first time that the Maoists had spared the 
voters. In fact, even the unfortunate attacks 
on  poll  officials  were  an  aberration  and 
not a policy of our party. It was due to mis-
taken identity that a polling party (instead 
of the police party) became the victim in 
Kasamsur in Manpur area of Kanker dis-
trict in Chhattisgarh (Dandakaranya). In 
fact,  our  Dandakaranya  Special  Zonal 
Committee had tendered an apology im-
mediately  after  the  unfortunate  incident 
and reassured the people that it will take 
all  precautions  that  such  unfortunate  
incidents would not occur in future. Our 
statement was covered in the local media 
widely.  A  serious  review  of  the  mistake 
was also made by the concerned commit-
tee. While expressing our condolences to 
the  families  of  the  five  polling  officials 
who died in the landmine explosion, we 
made it very clear that it is not our policy 
to harm polling staff. Even after this it is 
surprising that SB includes polling officials 
in the list of our targets. 

The Main Questions
Now taking up the main questions raised 
by  SB,  is  it  correct  to  conclude  that  the 
“vast majority of the voters are not ready 
for  boycotting  elections”?  But,  is  it  true 
that  voters  had  gone  in  “large  numbers 
(often representing 50 to 60% of the elec-
torate  in  these  areas)”?  Is  it  a  fact  that 
there has been “moderate to high percent-
age of polling in Naxalite areas in Andhra 
Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, Bihar and 
Jharkhand”?  SB  further  tries  to  paint  a 
picture of the Maoist party attempting to 
enforce a boycott over an unwilling popu-
lation  that  has  enthusiasm  for  casting 
their votes. He writes: 

The Maoist call for boycotting the elec tions, 
the party’s attempts to bring this about by 

74

large-scale attacks on the electoral machinery, 
and yet, the willingness of the villagers in 
their strongholds to queue up to cast their 
votes, present a peculiar web of complexities.

Let us take up these questions in turn.
How far is the contention of SB that the 
vast majority of people are not ready for 
boycotting elections true? Does SB know 
the facts regarding the actual percentage 
of votes polled in the Maoist strongholds 
about which he asserts so authoritatively? 
Did he tour any of these areas at the time 
of the elections or has he drawn his con-
clusions from the concocted stories floated 
by the police and the media? In the psy-
chological war waged against the Maoist 
revolutionaries by the reactionary ruling 
classes,  intelligence/police  officials,  and 
faithfully represented by the commercial 
media, the most common theme has been 
the supposed gap between the aspirations 
of the people and the goal of the party, be-
sides the beaten “caught-in-the-crossfire” 
theory put forth not only by police officials 
but also people like K Balagopal as seen in 
his critique of the novel, Raago, where he 
cynically concludes that the interests, as-
pirations and goals of an adivasi girl like 
Raago are different from those of the party 
and hence one cannot expect people like 
her to continue in the revolution until the 
end. The statistics are deliberately distorted 

to present such a picture to show that the 
party is isolated and uses force to obstruct 
the people when the latter go against the 
decisions and goals set by the party. 

SB’s  conclusion  sounds  subjective  and 
biased and hence ridiculous, particularly 
after  seeing  the  apathy,  disillusionment 
and boycott as a major trend by a signifi-
cant chunk of the population in the 15th 
Lok Sabha elections. In fact, never before 
had boycott become such a potent weapon 
in the hands of the people as during the 
Elections 2009. Hence the reactionary rul-
ers had to spend hundreds of crores of ru-
pees to refurbish the image of the rotten 
parliamentary  system.  Bollywood  and 
Tolly wood,  cricket  stars,  industrialists, 
multinational  corporations,  media  foun-
dations, and non-governmental organisa-
tions (NGOs) carried out non-stop propa-
ganda about the virtues of democracy, the 
sanctity of the vote, how not casting the 
vote was tantamount to aiding criminals 
win, and so on. There was no end to web 
sites and blogs calling on people to exercise 
their franchise. To lend an air of credibility 
to their propaganda they asked the voters 
to use their wisdom to choose between the 
good and the bad, to reject the criminals 
and corrupt elements, and to elect the vir-
tuous, as if there were virtuous people left 
in the parliamentary pigsty. 

CD-ROM 2006

The digital version of Economic and Political Weekly is now available for 2006 on a single disk.
This electronic edition contains the complete content of all the issues published in 2006. The CD-ROM 
2006  comes  equipped  with  a  powerful  search  as  well  as  utilities  to  make  your  browsing  experience 
productive.  The contents  are  indexed  and  organised  as  in  the  print  edition,  with  articles  laid  out  in 
individual sections in each issue. Users can browse through the sections or use the sophisticated search 
facility to locate articles and statistics of interest.
Price for CD-ROM 2006 (in India)
Individuals – Rs 285 (Rs 250 plus postage and handling charges of Rs 35)
Institutions – Rs 535 (Rs 500 plus postage and handling charges of Rs 35)

International – US$ 40 (including airmail postage)
Also  available  2003,  2004  and  2005  on  three  separate  CDs,  individual  CD  price  as 
above

Any queries please email: circulation@epw.in 

To  order  the  CD-ROMs  (please  specify  the  year)  send  a  bank  draft  payable  at  Mumbai  in  favour  of 
Economic  and  Political Weekly.  The  CDs  can  also  be  purchased  on-line  using  a  credit  card  through  a 
secure payment gateway at epw.in.

Circulation Manager, 

Economic and Political Weekly

320, 321, A to Z Industrial Estate, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013, India

september 19, 2009  vol xliv no 38  EPW   Economic & Political Weekly

The reactionary rulers have grasped the 
dangerous  trend  of  boycott  emerging 
throughout the country in the 2009 elec-
tions – a trend that SB failed to recognise. 
Hence they were desperate to prove that 
democracy was the victor. The day the first 
phase of elections to the Lok Sabha was 
completed on 16 April, the media tried to 
show  how  democracy  had  won  against  
anarchy, how ballot proved to be superior 
to  bullet,  how  people  defied  the  Maoists 
and came forth to exercise their franchise 
braving the bullet, and such endless rhetoric. 
“Bullet vs Ballot: Voters Give Mandate on 
Maoist-hit LS Seats” wrote a paper. “Maoist 
Warnings Fail to Deter Voters in Red Zone” 
claimed another, pointing to the 45% votes 
polled in Gaya district. “Despite Red Ter-
ror 50% Polling in Jharkhand” crowed an-
other paper. “Ballot Wins against Bullet” 
ran another headline. There was no limit 
to such hollow claims and empty phrases 
to prove that the so-called democracy got 
the upper-hand in this sham drama. The 
Chief  Election  Commissioner-designate 
Navin Chawla howled that “democracy tri-
umphed over Naxalism on 16 April”. 

Despite such appeals to the voters by all 
and sundry, hardly 50% turned up at the 
polling  booths.  In  Mumbai,  where  the 
shrill  cries  of  these  apologists  of  parlia-
mentary democracy were the loudest, the 
percentage of voting was a paltry 43.2%; 
in Thane even less. Then on whose behalf 
is SB speaking? If he comes to a conclusion 
based on the 43% who voted in Mumbai, 
then  how  undemocratic  would  his  stand 
be for neglecting the majority of 57% who 
had  refused  to  be  drawn  to  the  polling 
booths  even  when  popular  actors  and 
NGOs  engaged  in  intense  campaigning 
calling  on  them  to  vote?  He  agrees  that 
people had indeed used boycott as a form 
of protest relating it to their local issues. 
Yet, he concludes: 

Proud of their demo cratic right and hopeful 
of some change through the electoral process, 
they will cast their votes – though they are 
doomed  to  be  betrayed  by  the  victorious 
candidates.

Our  party  had  never  denied  the  fact 
that people will cast their votes but not be-
cause they are “proud of their democratic 
right and hopeful of some change through 
the electoral process” as imagined by SB. 
What percentage of the electorate actually 

exercised  its  vote  and  how  much  of  the 
vote was rigged? What percentage of the 
voting  population  voted  out  of  compul-
sion, material and other incentives, caste, 
communal, ethnic, regional and other fac-
tors? And, how many voters were forced 
into  voting  due  to  threats  and  intimida-
tion  by  gun-toting  khaki  goons  or  local 
rowdies? If all these are taken into account 
what  would  be  the  percentage  of  voters 
who  actually  exercised  their  franchise 
freely and of their own accord? 

Voting in naxalite Areas
As regards the conclusion that there has 
been  “moderate  to  high  percentage  of 
polling  in  Naxalite  areas  in  Andhra 
Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Orissa, Bihar and 
Jharkhand”, where did SB get his figures 
from? If he goes through the local media 
in each of these states instead of relying 
on the Delhi-centric press, then he cannot 
afford to miss the reports of zero to nomi-
nal polling in hundreds of booths, and re-
polling in several centres amidst unheard 
of security. He cannot afford to miss visu-
als of empty booths and security forces all 
around with hardly any civilians in sight. 
For  instance,  during  the  assembly  elec-
tions  in  Chhattisgarh  in  last  November, 
polling was held thrice in a centre called 
Gougonda  in  Konta  constituency.  In  the 
third re-poll, over a 1,000 policemen and 
CRPF personnel were deployed but only 10 
out of a total of 711 votes were polled. The 
attempts of the police to terrorise the peo-
ple and force them to cast their votes sim-
ply did not work as elsewhere since people 
had fled upon seeing the police. We had 
cited several such instances in our Bulletin 
No 7. In Anthagadh constituency, polling 
personnel did not go to the polling centre 
in  Partap  Pur,  Chota  Pakhanjur,  Chote 
Bethiya,  and  Aakmetta.  About  1,50,000 
voters in 176 villages spread across 13 Lok 
Sabha  constituencies 
in  the  state  of 
Jharkhand boycotted the polls this time. 
In Lalgarh, in West Medinipur district of 
West Bengal, no votes were cast in several 
booths. Of the 30,000 voters in Lalgarh, 
not more than 100 voted. In Malkangiri in 
Orissa, almost no polling was reported from 
booths in remote areas like Manyamkonda, 
Kurmanur, Poplur, Tangurkonda, Bodigeta, 
Karkatpalli,  etc.  The  list  of  successful  
boycotts or nominal polling runs long. 

Economic & Political Weekly  EPW   september 19, 2009  vol xliv no 38

discussion

In Andhra Pradesh, it is true there has 
been a setback to the revolutionary move-
ment.  No  wonder,  there  has  been  an  in-
crease in the polling percentage. But even 
in the best of times rigging and voting at 
gunpoint ensure that in the villages con-
sidered  to  be  the  strongest  bases  of  the 
Maoists the polling percentage would go 
up to even 80 to 90%. Deployment of the 
police  can  ensure  a  high  percentage  of 
polling even in Maoist strongholds. And in 
the native villages of the party leaders, the 
percentages go up to 80 to 90%. All the 
political parties are one in ensuring such 
an  outcome  to  show  that  people  do  not 
heed  the  call  of  the  Maoists  and  that 
demo cracy  had  won.  In  the  recent  elec-
tions,  the  headlines  in  most  newspapers 
and the electronic media show how para-
noid the rulers are about the boycott call 
of  the  Maoists  and  their  desperation  to 
prove  that  democracy  was,  after  all,  the 
victor. SB must do some homework before 
venturing  to  make  sweeping  comments 
and  conclusions  that  people  in  Naxalite 
areas also do not heed the call given by 
the Maoist party. 

What exactly he is driving at is not very 
clear. But from his remarks and the tone 
and  tenor  of  his  arguments  it  seems  he 
wants the party to contest the elections as 
the  “vast  majority  of  the  voters  are  not 
ready  for  boycotting  elections”.  Or  at 
least, he does not want the party to issue 
a  call  for  boycott  since  that,  he  feels,  is 
not  the  aspiration  of  the  people.  He  
naively asks: 

if the voters are given what it considers ‘the 
min imum democratic right to reject the par-
ties  and  candidates’,  will  the  party  allow 
them to participate in the elections, or still 
insist on boycotting them?

He  strongly  believes  that  the  boycott 
call should not be given as the majority of 
the people are not ready. He asks the CPI 
(Maoist) leaders: 

(W)ill they recognise that the vast majority 
of  the  Indian  elector ate,  despite  their  
disillusionment  with  the  present  political 
leadership, are not yet ready for boycotting 
elections?

He agrees that our party does not use 
force and intimidate the voters and hence 
gives scope for “villagers in their strong-
holds  to  cast  their  votes  without  fear,  
instead of heeding to their boycott call”. 

75

discussion

And hence he concludes: “This should be an 
eye-opener to the CPI(Maoist) leadership”.

We think that the trend of boycott will 
grow stronger as the revolutionary move-
ment grows stronger, the organs of people’s 
revolutionary power come into being in vast 
tracts of the country, the armed strength 
of the people grows and the People’s Lib-
eration Guerrilla Army (PLGA) makes im-
pressive gains and wins decisive victories 
in some areas. Without the consolidation 
of the party, people’s army and revolution-
ary mass organisations, organs of people’s 
power,  and  without  gaining  an  upper-
hand over the enemy in a significant area, 
one cannot imagine people coming out in 
huge  numbers  to  boycott  the  polls.  The 
emergence of an alternative to the parlia-
mentary  institutions  will  bring  about  a 
qualitative change in the perception, pre-
paredness  and  approach  of  the  people  
towards  Parliament  and  the  contesting 
political parties. 

Learning from our Mistakes
We  welcome  any  frank  and  meaningful 
criticism of our line, policies and practice 
such as SB’s criticism on the choice of pri-
orities  by  the  Indian  Maoists.  He  says: 
“They  have  not  yet  been  able  to  offer  a 
wide-ranging  viable  alternative  model 
that  appears  convincing  and  accept able 
to the various sections of the poor all over 
India.”  This  criticism  is  partially  true. 
Given the vastness of the country and the 
weakness  of  the  Maoist  movement,  the 
model  that  is  being  developed  in  Dan-
dakaranya and parts of Bihar, Jharkhand, 
Orissa  and  some  other  states,  is  not  yet 
seen  as  a  viable  alternative  by  various 
sections of the poor all over India. More-
over, the problems in the advanced areas 
and  plains,  and  in  the  urban  areas  are  
of  a  different  nature  and  we  admit  our 
party  has  not  been  able  to  address  the 
problems of the poor living there. Thus, 
whatever  has  been  achieved  in  a  few 
pockets  of  the  backward  areas  does  not 
provide a wide-ranging viable alternative 
model by itself. A lot more has to be done 
to  convince  the  people  about  a  viable  
alternative model. 

While such a constructive criticism is to 
be welcomed, one cannot understand the 
rationale behind some of his unwarranted 
comments  like  citing  some  mistakes  on 

76

the part of our party which are of no rele-
vance  here.  For  instance,  ridiculing  the 
apology  tendered  by  the  Maoists  to  the  
unfortunate deaths of five polling personnel 
in  Chhattisgarh  on  the  16  April,  SB  re-
counts some serious mistakes committed 
by the Maoists in the past, like the three 
decades-old Kakatiya train incident, and a 
few  incidents  of  punishments  to  police 
agents, and questions: “How long will they 
go on repeating such ‘mistakes’, and dis-
missing  them  as  ‘collat eral  damages’  on 
their path of revolution?” There are also 
comments such as “the frequent killings of 
poor villagers by paranoiac Maoist guer-
rillas  who  suspect  them  of  being  police 
agents” based on concocted police reports 
or the biased reports in the media. 

The Kakatiya train incident has been a 
blot in our party history and was due to 
the  sheer  inexperience  of  the  comrades 
who  were  involved  in  the  early  years  of 
our party’s life. But, the above allegation 
needs  some  explanation  from  the  party. 
We Maoists have never dismissed our mis-
takes and justified the deaths of innocent 

civilians  as  “collateral  damages”.  Every 
such  incident  is  thoroughly  reviewed  by 
the  concerned  party  committee,  and 
where needed, by a higher party commit-
tee; those responsible are censured, lessons 
are drawn, and measures are initiated to 
rectify  such  mistakes  and  weaknesses. 
The hue and cry of the police, the main-
stream  political  parties  and  the  media 
over  the  punishments  to  police  agents 
should be seen in the correct perspective. 
The police lure poor people into their in-
former  network,  create  covert  agents  to 
work from within the party and the revo-
lutionary movement, and attempt to cause 
the maximum damage to the party and the 
movement. Our failure to break the back of 
the  intelligence  network  of  the  police  is 
one of the main causes for the setback we 
had suffered in Andhra Pradesh. Learning 
from the lesson, we have been more cau-
tious and have succeeded in breaking the 
enemy intelligence network to a consider-
able  extent  in  Dandakaranya  (Chhattis-
garh and Maharashtra), Bihar, Jharkhand, 
Orissa and West Bengal, which is one of 

Review of Labour

May 30, 2009

Beyond the Factory: Globalisation, Informalisation of 
  Production and the New Locations of Labour 

Neoliberal Subjectivity, Enterprise Culture and New Workplaces:
  Organised Retail and Shopping Malls in India 
   
The Effects of Employment Protection Legislation 
  on Indian Manufacturing 

– Kalyan Sanyal,
 Rajesh Bhattacharyya

– Nandini Gooptu

– Aditya Bhattacharjea

Power, Inequality and Corporate Social Responsibility:  The Politics of 
 

Ethical Compliance in the South Indian Garment Industry 

– Geert De Neve  

Revisiting Labour and Gender Issues in Export Processing Zones: 
  Cases of South Korea, Bangladesh and India 

– Mayumi Murayama, 
Nobuko Yokota

Defragmenting ‘Global Disintegration of Value Creation’ 
 

and Labour Relations 

 – G Vijay

For copies write to:
Circulation Manager,

Economic and Political Weekly,

320-321, A to Z Industrial Estate, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, 

Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013.
email: circulation@epw.in

september 19, 2009  vol xliv no 38  EPW   Economic & Political Weekly

the reasons that we are able to survive in 
the  midst  of  the  severest  repression  in 
these pockets. It is not paranoia but sheer 
necessity that is driving us to smash the 
enemy  network 
is  dangerously 
spreading into the areas of struggle. 

that 

do We disrupt ‘development’?
Let us now briefly deal with SB’s critique of 
our approach to the state’s “development” 
activity. He writes: 

The CPI(Maoist) in particular, which claims 
to fight for the rights of the poor, has shown 
a  cruel  disregard  for  these  basic  amenities 
demanded by the people by dis rupting power 
supply and obstructing road building in the 
backward districts – purely out of their par-
tisan  interest  to  cut  off  communication  so 
that the police can not raid their hideouts.
The reality is the  CPI(Maoist) owes its 
entire  existence  to  its  work  among  the 
poor and deprived sections of the society. 
It has been able to build the longest sus-
tained revolutionary movement in the his-
tory of India and south Asia, confronted 
the mighty Indian state for over four dec-
ades  and  had  grown  from  strength  to 
strength  despite  losing  thousands  of  its 
cadres  precisely  because  it  has  its  roots 
firmly entrenched among the masses. It is 
by  solving  the  burning  problems  of  the 
people,  particularly  the  problem  of  land 
alienation,  lack  of  basic  amenities  and 
means  of  livelihood  that  our  party  has 
gained the active support of the masses, 
succeeded in involving a considerable sec-
tion of the people in militant struggles and 
in  the  ongoing  people’s  war.  And  this  is 
precisely the reason why people continue 
to extend all kinds of support to the party 
even  in  the  midst  of  the  severest  state  
repression.  To  say  that  our  party  has 
shown  a  “cruel  disregard  for  these  basic 
amenities demanded by the people” is to 
play into the hands of the establishment 
and  some  so-called  civil  society  groups 
funded by the big business and imperialist 
agencies. Alleging that we have been “dis-
rupting  power  supply  and  obstructing 
road  building  in  the  backward  districts” 
and to attribute it to our “partisan inter-
est”  is  another  baseless  charge  that  has 
been taken out of the police files. 

The question is: why are the rulers in-
terested  in  building  roads,  pucca  school 
buildings and even helipads in a place like 
Maad  (known  to  the  outside  world  as  

Abhujmad  or  the  unknown  land)  at  the 
present  juncture?  The  fact  is  the  rulers 
have  a  long-term  strategy  to  exploit  the 
natural  resources  of  the  region  and  had 
arrived at an agreement with the comprador 
big business houses and the MNCs to loot 
the natural wealth that is lying unexplored 
and  unexploited  in  the  bosom  of  these  
regions. They are planning to exploit the 
entire  natural  wealth  from  Raoghat  to 
Maad and it is for this purpose that road-
building is taken up at a hectic pace. As 
the  Maoists  are  well-perched  in  these  
regions it is essential for the reactionary 
rulers  to  suppress  them  first  in  order  to 
loot the wealth. None other than the prime 
minister himself spoke of how the natural 
wealth is locked up in these regions under 
the control of left wing extremists. Thus 
the so-called Red Corridor is sought to be 
“liberated” from the Maoists so as to hand 
it over to the vultures waiting with greedy 
mouths  to  prey  on  these  regions.  Hence 
school  buildings  are  required  as  they  
provide fortified shelters to the CRPF and 
other state forces in their bloody onslaught 
against the Maoist revolutionaries. 

More important, the plan of the rulers is 
to evict the adivasis from the region and 
settle  them  elsewhere  permanently.  The 
region is home to one of the oldest surviv-
ing tribes in India – the madia gonds – and 
now their very existence is at stake due  
to  the  so-called  development  that  SB  is 
worried  about.  We  oppose  only  such  
development  projects  that  harm  the  
interests  of  the  adivasis,  facilitate  the  
unhindered  exploitation  of  the  region’s 
wealth,  displace  the  indigenous  tribes 
and  the  inhabitants  of  the  forests  from 
their homes and lands, and destroy their 
way of living and their culture. It is a mis-
giving that we are opposed to every kind 
of  road  construction  or  that  we  disrupt 
power supply and communication. It is in 
fact our party that has been in the fore-
front of people’s struggles for basic ameni-
ties and we ourselves had taken up some 
development  activity  that  directly  bene-
fits the people in areas where we have our 
embryonic organs of people’s democratic 
power.  Yes,  power  supply  has  been  dis-
rupted as part of our resistance to the state 
offensive, fake encounters, etc. However, 
our party committees had reviewed this 
and  decided  to  take  up  such  sabotage  

Economic & Political Weekly  EPW   september 19, 2009  vol xliv no 38

discussion

activities in a selective manner with least 
inconvenience to the people at large. 

Boycott and democratic Rights
And  finally,  coming  to  the  key  question 
posed by SB: if the voters are given what it 
considers “the min imum democratic right 
to reject the parties and candidates”, will 
the party allow them to participate in the 
elections,  or  still  insist  on  boycotting 
them? Boycott of elections and the mini-
mum democratic right to reject the parties 
and  candidates  are  complementary  to 
each other. There is no contradiction be-
tween the two rights. Just as right to vote 
is being described as a democratic right, 
right to boycott is also a democratic right 
of the voter. But in many instances, the po-
lice and reactionary gangs force the voters 
to cast their votes. In such circumstances, 
provision of the right to rejection of candi-
dates will give the voter a chance to reject 
everyone in the fray. It is a curious logic to 
substitute this for the general call of boy-
cott, which is meant to enhance the aware-
ness  of  the  people  regarding  the  futility 
and irrelevance of elections to their lives 
and in solving their basic problems. 

Our  boycott  is  taken  up  in  different 
forms depending upon our strength, people’s 
consciousness and preparedness. In some 
places it is at the level of propaganda, in 
some it is done passively in the sense that 
we do not attempt to stop the process of 
election but mobilise the people to ques-
tion  the  parties  and  candidates  and  ob-
struct their campaigns. And where we are 
strong enough and have our own organs 
of people’s power and have emerged as an 
alternative before the people, we organise 
active boycott and do all that is possible to 
prevent the election from taking place. In 
a country where the revolutionary move-
ment  and  the  people’s  consciousness  are 
at various levels of development, our form 
of  struggle  too  takes  different  forms  of 
expression. Hence stopping or not stopping 
the people is not the point here. It is the 
people  themselves  who  have  actively 
stopped  the  election  process  in  many 
places either due to their anger against 
parties for not solving their problems and 
non-fulfilment  of  promises,  or  because 
they see the futility of the very system of 
parliamentary  democracy  and  the  drama 
of elections.

77

