 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

September 21, 2012 

Demand immediate roll back of the decision to allow FDI in Retail, Civil Aviation,  

Power & Broadcasting Sectors 

Do not let the lackey Indian ruling classes and the running dogs of imperialists  

in the Parliament to sell our country’s sovereignty to the FDI Giants 

 
The Central government took a Cabinet decision on September 14 to allow 51% FDI (Foreign Direct Investments) 
in  Multi-Brand  Retail  and  facilitating  more  than  51%  in  Single  Brand  Retail,  49%  in  Civil  Aviation,  49%  in  Power 
Exchanges and 49 to 74% in Broadcasting sector including DTH and in spite of huge opposition issued a notification on 
September 20th that would immediately bring this into effect. Now foreign investors can invest in and open retail shops in 
ten states and Union Territories and the other states can take the decision as to allow it or not. The statutory warning 
issued in ‘national interests’ on the package says : More FDI in all sectors to come, New Economic Policies of 1991 were 
the  rehearsals,  this  is  the  Grand  Opening  to  the  beginning of  the  end  of  our  country,  Revolting  would  be  injurious  to 
health.  Adding salt to injury, the price of diesel per litre was increased to 5 rupees and the number of subsidized cooking 
gas cylinders per family was reduced to a meager six per year.  

The opposition parties called for a bandh on September 20 opposing these decisions but going by their past record 
of vying with each other for the rapid implementation of pro-imperialist policies in the states where they had been or at 
present in power, one can easily deduce that they are just reenacting the drama of November 2011 of namesake opposition 
and this whole bunch of gangsters going by the name of UPA and opposition parties are one of the same piece. After these 
lackeys finish playing their part in this reeking parliamentary farce, the FDI would make its grand imperial front door 
entry  on  to  the  red  carpet  rolled  by  the  comprador  Indian  ruling  classes,  crushing  crores  of  small  retail  traders  and 
peasants under its iron heels all along its trail to the nook and corners of the country. Sovereignty is just a small price to 
pay and the number of suicides of small retailers and farmers that would dramatically increase would be the collateral 
damage that has to be borne to usher in ‘economic growth’ via FDI. 

There is a condition that it is up to the state governments whether to implement the FDI decision or not, so the 
Congress led governments would anyway implement it in their states. While Akali Dal had unashamedly stated that it is 
for this decision, even the other parties would follow suit through the back door as they are also nothing but comprador 
parties that had been bending over backwards to fulfill the interests of the imperialist MNCs in their states till date and in 
every sphere. Trinamool Congress announced its decision to withdraw from the UPA-2 with much reluctance just to save 
its face and has been indicating that it would give support if the government makes some concessions in these decisions 
like bringing back the price of diesel per litre to three or four rupees, increasing the number of cooking gas cylinders and 
may be reducing some percentage of FDI in the multi-brand retail business. Hillary Clinton had already paid a visit to 
Mamta Banerji precisely on the FDI issue last year and one need not be surprised when she rolls the red carpet to FDI in 
retail in her state. It is just of matter of timing keeping in view ‘grave’ concerns such as elections, clinging to power etc. 
Mulayam’s  statement  that  he  would    not  withdraw  support  to  UPA  on  the  FDI  issue  as  his  party  does  not  want  the 
communal forces to go ahead is a white lie. None of these vassals of the Delhi Sarkar have a backbone or any concern for 
the  nearly  4  to  5  crore  small  retailers  (and  the  15  to  20  crores  of  people  dependent  on  them)  who  would  lose  their 
livelihood to the FDI giants. It should be seriously noted that not a single one of them including the revisionist CPI and 
CPI (M) are totally rejecting the decision to bring in FDI or demanding its complete withdrawal which is proof of their 
connivance. Their so-called opposition, namesake bandh calls or dharnas are just for more sops for their state which they 
can guzzle or to loosen the leashes of the umpteen numbers of corruption and scandal cases worth crores of rupees that are 
in the hands of the central government. 

What increase in job opportunities due to entry of FDI is the professional liar PM talking about while the World 
of Work 2011 report is projecting a bleak future for employment prospects and a global survey of 150 countries is stating 
that  socio-economic  insecurity  has  heightened  across  the  world?  The  entire  record  of  retail  giants  like  Wal-Mart  or  a 
Tesco  all  over  the  world  including  US  shows  that  they  had  reaped  massive  unemployment  and  underemployment 
wherever  they  were  sowed.  A  single Wal-Mart  store  could crush  13,000  small  retail  stores  and  take  away  4,000  jobs. 
Behind every job generated there would be at least be 20 lost jobs. Count the number of persons in a family who depend 
on the income of a single job in a backward country like India and the picture that would emerge is not rosy as the PM 
projects but bloody. And most of the few jobs that they generate are non-guaranteed, low-paid, back-breaking insecure 
temporary sweatshop jobs and violate all the hard-won labor rights and laws. The heads of every government in Europe 
and other imperialist countries including US are holding their heads as to how to tackle the problem of unemployment and 
the ensuing and intensifying protests against their economic policies and all the MNC vultures that are perching in India 
now were born and brought up in these countries. How are they going to shower jobs on us when they failed miserably in 
their own countries to create jobs? Does the PM, the ‘Art of Lying’ Guru, think we have forgotten how Obama who came 
with his entourage to India to sign business deals went back to US touting how he got more jobs for US citizens? Why is 
he globetrotting for jobs for his citizens when he has MNC giants like Wal-Marts, Tescos, Carrefours and Metros in his 
own  country  that  could  shower  jobs?  Why  doesn’t  the  PM  first  ask  his  bosses  in  US  to  stop  the  crashing  of  their 
monopoly giants one after another in spite of any number of bailouts before trying to ‘bring us out of our difficult times’ 
by bringing in similar monopoly giants?  

The PM saying that it would help the farmers in making profits by doing away with the middlemen is a cruel joke. 
The retail giants would not only dictate what is to be produced, which seeds are be sown, which pesticides and fertilizers 
are to be used – in a word every aspect of production, but would also drastically reduce the profit margin of the farmers 
once they gain the upper hand in the market. They would force the farmers to produce a single variety that would not only 
hit hard the livelihood of the farmers who would now be forced to buy everything at exorbitant prices in the market but 
would also make the lands barren not to mention the enormous harm to the ecology. The final result would be that the 
small and middle farmers would not be able to meet the demands of these giants with agriculture increasingly becoming a 
loss making prospect. They would be forced to sell their lands to corporate farming and becoming paupers. All this would 
exacerbate the already looming large agrarian crisis in our country leading to more suicides and unrest among the farmers. 
Even the condition that these outlets should buy 30% local products is a big sham as there is no single mechanism in our 
country  that would  monitor  the  buying  and  selling  done  by  these  shops.  Kickbacks  would  prevent  the  formation  such 
mechanisms in future or the overarching WTO would take care of the violation or the creation of exceptions to the rule.  

But yes, the PM is right on one count. This would do away with the lakhs of small and big middlemen who have 
been a part of the huge complex chain between the producer and the consumer making a living or even been making some 
profits. Whether we call them middlemen or something else innumerable persons are needed in the intricate process of  
taking the product to the consumer. The question is who would take their place and who would now be pocketing their 
‘lost profits’? Certainly not the farmers. Not even the consumers as the prices of commodities would skyrocket once the 
FDI giants gain the market not to mention the fact that from now on what and all they should consume (eat, drink, wear, 
see, hear et all) would be decided by the MNCs. (It is a given fact that even now the prices in these outlets are no less 
anywhere in the world). It would be the Big Middlemen in the Parliament and state assemblies who are behaving like 
impatient traders in hurry to sell our country for peanuts to the MNCs and pocket the kickbacks. The biggest profits inside 
the country would go to the CBB who had already tied and would be tying their capital to the MNCs in retail trade and 
other  private  enterprises.  With  the  whole  world  going  the  monopoly  way  wouldn’t  it  be  better  if  the  business  of 
middlemen also gets monopolized by these Dons and the pickpockets and petty thieves are done away? After all, India is 
on its way to becoming a Super Power courtesy US.    

The  FM  Chidambaram,  obviously  called  back  into  the  job  by  his  US  masters  to  ‘efficiently’  and  ‘obediently’ 
implement  such  ‘economic  reforms’,  had  expressed  confidence  that  he  would  get  30,000  crores  of  rupees  from 
disinvestment and check the fiscal deficit that has been cited by the PM as the monster that has to be tackled by bringing 
in FDI. Why just 30,000 crores? Let us think BIG. How about disinvesting the Scam Industry that has become the most 
profitable  Public  Sector  making  billions  of  rupees  in  the  professional  hands  of  our  honorable  ministers  or  even  just 
canceling the IPL season once? Ok, we Indians are not ambitious, how about disinvesting just the 2G scam (Rs. 1,75,000 
crores) or a slightly bigger and recent coal block allotment scam (Rs. 2 lakh crores)?  How about bringing back not even 
the entire but at least a quarter of the 80 lakh crores of rupees that are stashed away in foreign banks (according to one 
estimate) or seizing the profits of mining kings like the Gali brothers and Jaganmohan Reddy not permanently but for just 
one year so that ‘as PM of this great country’ Mr. Singh can provide health, education, housing and jobs and avoid the 
forceful feeding of FDI poison that he wants us to swallow for this sake? How about asking the CBB families like Jindals 
and Mittals to restrict usage of cooking gas cylinders from one cylinder a day to one cylinder a month at least for two 

years to overcome the present ‘cylinder crisis’ or putting a ban on spending crores of rupees unproductively on building 
demoniac eye sores like the Antilla and diverting such funds to constructing warehouses, cold storage facilities etc which 
the PM is saying we can construct only with FDI panacea? 

The PM is saying that bringing in FDI is needed to come out of the difficult times our economy is facing and that 
it would serve ‘national interests’ by making India an attractive destination for foreign investments. Where is the need for 
FDI when our beloved country India has some of the richest natural resources in the world and its human resources are not 
only second largest in the world but also one with vast potential? There would be no fiscal deficit or any difficult times 
(economic crisis) if only these resources are freed from the clutches and exploitation of the big landlords, the comprador 
bureaucratic bourgeoisie (CBB) and their imperialist masters and the people of this country are allowed to utilize them for 
the country’s development.  

The need of the hour is not disinvestment but divestment of the powers of the gangsters in the Parliament 
(who are actually ‘illegally’ in power as they do not even have a quarter of the electorate’s mandate and do not 
have any moral right or credentials to decide the fate of crores of our people) representing the Indian ruling classes 
to make decisions that impact in the most pernicious manner the lives and livelihoods of the more than hundred 
and ten crore population of our country the overwhelming majority of whom are workers, poor peasants, urban 
toilers and middle classes.  

It  is  the  imperialists  who  need  our  country’s  rich  resources  to  come  out  of  the  financial  crisis  that  has 

engulfed them since 2008 and not us who need foreign investments to overcome difficult times.  

Our difficult times are due to the exploitation of big land lords, CBB and the placing the sovereignty of our 
country by these ruling classes at the feet of the imperialists allowing them to loot us lock, stock and barrel and not 
due to our country not being an attractive destination for FDI. 
Beloved people of India! Democrats and Patriots! 

Out  rightly  reject  and  expose  the  upside  down  arguments  put  forward  by  the  Sonia-Manmohan-Pranab-
Chidambaram-Ahluwalia-Rangarajan clique to bring in FDI. Demand the immediate roll back of the decision to allow 
FDI into Retail and other sectors. Expose the sham and namesake opposition of the opposition parties most of who have 
long been engaged in back door parleys to implement this decision in their states. The decision to bring in FDI in retail is 
not some routine decision but could turn out to be the single biggest neo-liberal economic decision of the government that 
would negatively impact the lives of majority of people in our country. Allowing this would rapidly pave the way for 
rapidly turning our country which is already facing neck-deep neo-colonial exploitation, plunder and control into a slave 
country. Not a single aspect our lives or any sector would be left untouched by this decision as every aspect in our life is 
increasingly getting linked with the market. Realize the dangers this decision is posing to our country and us and fight it 
back tooth and nail. Let the true patriots rise to preserve the sovereignty of our country from the greedy hands of the 
imperialist looting monsters.     

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

