COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Saffron terrorism-the most dangerous enemy of the entire Indian people! 

Let us wage a united, broad-based movement of all secular, 

democratic forces to defeat state-sponsored 

saffron terrorism and state terrorism!! 

 

THE dark, ugly and hidden face of saffron terrorism was revealed openly first in connection with the Malegaon bomb 

blasts that took a toll of 31 innocent lives and now also in the samjhauta express incident. It was more of an accident that 
the role of Hindutva terrorism in the Malegaon bomb blasts had come to light. The revelations of the gory deeds of the 
saffron terrorists in connection with Malegaon and samjhauta express are only the tip of the iceberg. A re-investigation of 
all the bomb blasts that had taken place in the country over the last 15 years or so would bring to light even more startling 
facts  related  to  the  ugly  face  of  Hindutva  forces  and  expose  the  conspiracies  of  the  ruling  classes  in  implicating  the 
Muslim community. 
 
 
In fact, most of the saffron-robed sadhus, sadhvins, swamis, sants, mahants, maharshis, ogis etc have been  planning 
an  overtly  communal  role  inciting  the  Hindus  against  the  religious  minorities  and  preaching  the  politics  of  murder, 
revenge, and genocide particularly since the demolition of Babari Masjid in 1992. But no government had done anything 
to  investigate  into  their  nefarious  communal  games  and  terrorist  activities  let  alone  arrest  them  or  ban  the  overtly 
communal-terrorist organisations in the past 15 years. Whenever a bomb blast takes place or some explosives are said to 
be found (most of these, anyway, are planted by intelligence agencies, police officials and saffron organisations and also 
the Congress) the accusing finger is always inevitably pointed at Muslim organisations and innocent Muslims. 
 
  While  Islamic  organisations  like  SIMI  are  banned  without  any  evidence,  Hindu  terrorist organisations  such  as  the 
RSS,  VHP,  Bajrang  Dal,  Durga  vahini,  Hindu  Defence  Force,  Rashtriya  Jagaran  manch,  Abhnav  Bharat,  Hindu 
Munnani, Shiv Sena, and, of course, the mother of all these Hindu fascist gangs—the BJP—are allowed a free hand to 
incite  communal  passions,  riots,  organise  genocides  as  in  Gujarat  and  bomb  blasts  as  in  Malegaon,  Modasa,  Nanded, 
Kanpur etc. Even blasts in Muslim places of worship as in Mecca Masjid in Hyderabad are sought to be proved as the 
handiwork of Muslim orgaisations. Thousands of Muslim youth are arrested and incarcerated in jails for ears without any 
evidence while the real terrorist sin saffron robes go on inciting communal passions and set off bombs with the blessings 
of the Indian state. 
 
 
The extent of the  infiltration of the saffron terrorists in the state machinery can be seen by the role of several top-
ranking serving and former Army officials in training and supplying explosives to Hindu terrorist gangs and engineering 
the blasts. This shows not only the complicit of the state but also its deep ties of the various wings of the state with the 
Hindu terrorists. 
 
 
The attack on Muslim organizations and Muslim community at large is a conspiracy hatched by the Indian state and 
the top functionaries of various political parties such as the BJP and Congress. The so-called India Mujahideen itself is a 
creation  of  the  IB  as  is  now  clearly  revealed.  Even  the  so-called  investigations  into  the  bomb  blasts  in  Jaipur, 
Ahmedabad, Bangalore—all of which had taken place in BJP-ruled states—were carried out with the malicious intention 
to absolving the saffron terrorists and implicating the Muslims. A reinvestigation of these incidents is likely to show the 
involvement of the saffron terrorists directly organized by the ruling BJP. 
 
The  CC,  CPI(Maoist)  calls  upon  all  the  secular  and  democratic  forces  to  unite  to  wage  a  broad-based  people’s 
 
movement  to  expose,  isolate,  resist  and  weed  out  these  poisonous  weeds  from  our  midst  that  are  vitiating  communal 
harmony and are itching to create genocides to exterminate the religious minorities. The responsibility lies more on the 
shoulders  of  the  Hindu  majority  to  spurn  and  ostracise  these  Hindutva  terrorists  who  are  a  blemish  to  the  Hindu 
community. 
 
  We call upon the entire Party, PLGA and the revolutionary  masses to defend the  people  by resisting  by all  means 
and carrying out attacks on these anti-people, anti-national, lumpen neo-Nazi gangs of saffron-clad terrorists. The Indian 
state and its various wings, which are permeated with Hindu chauvinism and anti-Muslim, anti-Christian bias can never 
bring  these  Hindu  terrorists  to  book or  bring  a  sense  of  security  and  justice  to the  persecuted  minorities.  It  is  only  by 
taking  up  arms  against  the  state-sponsored  saffron  terrorism  and  state  terrorism  and  advancing  the  people’s  war  to 

* Arrest of the top leaders of the saffron organisations and a ban on these organisations. 
* Reinvestigation of all the incidents of bomb blasts since 1992. 
* Release of all Muslim and Christian people and lifting of the false cases foisted against them by the Indian state. 
* Punishment to the police officials involved in the persecution and harassment of the religious minorities and 

overthrow the exploiting rulers who are nurturing the communal-fascist Hindutva forces that security and justice can be 
brought to the religious minorities in the country. 
 
  We demand: 
 
 
 
 
fabrication of concocted stories about so called Islamic terrorists. 
 
18-11- 08  
signed/ 
 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 
 

Azad, 

[From People’s Truth, #5, April-June 2009.] 

