his right hand Ajay Singh, and others like him are engaged in executing
the work-plan issued from the office of the then IG MW Ansari. (It is
thus only just, that Ajay Singh has since been wiped out for his heinous
crimes against the tribals.)

The Guardian has reported:
“While the soldiers say villagers come seeking refuge from the
violence, the tribals tell a different story. They claim that the camps
are, in reality, prisons.The guards in Bhairamgarh camp brought out
captured Naxalite political agents, known as Sangam, for the Guardian
to  interview.  Each  told  a  story  of  state-backed  terror. A  mob  of
government supporters invaded their village backed by armed soldiers
who opened fire on “Naxalite houses”. A battle ensued and the guerrillas,
outgunned,  fled.  Once  an  area  has  been  “cleansed”,  the  homes  of
those used by leftwing guerrillas are destroyed and “I was a Sangam.
People were getting shot and homes burnt every day. I had no choice
but to come here,” said Buddram, who used to farm around Kotrapal.
Clutching her baby to her chest, Jamli recounts how the Salva Judum
militia kidnapped her and seven friends as they travelled to a market.
“We were told we had to come to the police station. Once we reached
there we were kept overnight and driven to this camp where we were
told  if  you  leave  you  will  be  killed,”  she  said.  “I  was  alone  until  my
husband arrived a week later and he is trapped here too. We are not
Naxalites. We have no homes, just these tents.”

Relocation of the tribal population in the name of curbing militancy
is not new to the Indian state. In 1994 the Government of Tripura had
launched a village  regrouping programme, in the North Tripura and
the  Dhalai  districts.  The  state  had  relocated  around  400  militancy
affected tribal families along the Assam-Agartala National Highway and
some other major roads before a stay order by the Supreme Court. In
carrying out such repressive measures, the track record of the CPM
is no different from other ruling class parties including enforcement of
the hated Armed Forces Special Powers Act.

In a write-up in the October 31, 2006 issue of the environmentalist
magazine  ”Down  to  Earth”,  Maureen  Nandini  recalls:  “India  has
witnessed in the past what happens when thouands of villagers are
relocated  to  roadside  camps  without  planning  for  their  livelihood
16

SALWA JUDUM

A

OF

 ‘NEW FRONT’

 ‘HIDDEN WAR’

  THE INSIDE STORY

not a people’s movement as claimed by the BJP. It is resulting in
ordinary tribals becoming victims of depredations of police as well as
naxalites.  The  conditions  in  the  camps  set-up  by  the  Chattisgarh
government is so bad that tribals cannot live there. In contrast, the
West Bengal experience under Left Front rule is noteworthy. The West
Bengal government, by introducing pro-people and pro-tribal measures,
has been able to contain the activities of the extremists. Unless this
loot of the tribals is stopped, no effective measures can be taken to
contain the naxalite activities.”
Forcible displacement and relocation
The ‘strategic hamlet’ theory

That relocation of large tribal populations by the barbarian state
forces is a strategy of their defense policy is now a well established
fact. The erstwhile Inspector General of Police of Bastar range MW
Ansari is on record stating that: “In order to curb the Naxalites it is
necessary to have collectivization of rural residence”.

(It is a separate fact , that two lakh rupees looted from a Kaju
trader of Jagdalpur was recovered from this officer’s residence, after
which he was transfered !

An ex. Secretary of the Government of India - EAS Sharma has
written in a recent article: “ Salwa Judum’s overall aim is to relocate
the Adivasis  at  any  cost,  from  their  villages  to  roadside  relief
camps.”

The Newyork Times reports on April 13, 2006: “Last September
the Salwa Judum, backed by the local police, swept through Kotrapal
with a clear message: Move to the camps or face the Salwa Judum’s
wrath.
“We finished off the village,” said Ajay Singh, the Salwa Judum’s
leader in a nearby town Bhairamgarh. Then he clarified: “People were
excited. Of course they destroyed the houses.” Salwa Judum leaders
say they have waged their campaign with a singular goal in mind: to
clear the villages, one by one, and break the Maoists’ web of support.
“Unless you cut off the source of disease, the disease will remain,”
is how the group’s most prominent backer, an influential adivasi politician
named  Mahendra  Karma,  put  it.  “The  source  is  the  people,  the
villagers.” This leaves no room for doubt that Mahendra Karma and
15

2

have divided loyalties and, for this, police must be given targets.
The  Collector  also  advocates  controls  on  the  media. All  of  this  is
uncannily being followed to plan....”.

These  facts  conclusively  prove  that  the  stories  repeated  again
and again in the media that Salwa Judum is a spontaneous movement
of the adivasis which started in June 2005 from Kutru, is nothing but
an  elaborate  propaganda-management.

The national English weekly Outlook observed on May 15, 2006
that, “The state is playing a violent game of forcibly arming the tribals
against the Maoists” which has created a situation of “state-sponsored
civil war launched by the state government, in which adivasis are being
pitted against adivasis - cannon fodder for a failed administration.”

The  News  International  observes  on  June  3,  2006  that,  “  The
government in the Central state of Chhattisgarh is about to launch a
massive military operation against Naxalites with a dozen paramilitary
battalions under the so-called “Supercop” and former Punjab police
chief  KPS  Gill.  The  operation  has  been  called  the  “ultimate”  or
“knockout” punch. The CRPF will be assisted by  special commandos
from  Mizoram,  trained  in  “counter-insurgency”  operations  by
United States troops in a decade-old programme. Gill’s strategy
involves gathering reliable   intelligence on the Maoists’ hideouts, and
hitting  them  hard  “in  a  sudden  and  well-coordinated  attack”,  giving
them  little  time  “to  regroup  and  retaliate”.  The  plan  also  entails
evacuation of large numbers of people from forests.”

It is all too well-known that the CPI(M) is very much party to the
ruling classes’ efforts to crush the Maoist movement in India. But this
ruling class party is also having to describe the true character of Salwa
Judum and condemn it. The following statement of the Polit Bureau of
the  CPI  (M)  issued  on  20  June  2006  describes  Salwa  Judum  as  a
police  operation:

“The unfounded criticism made by the spokesperson of the BJP
regarding  the  Left  parties  demand  in  the  meeting  of  the  UPA-Left
coordination  committee    to  withdraw  Salwa  Judum  operation  in
Chattisgarh has only exposed the real intention of the BJP government
in Chattisgarh. The Salwa Judum operation is a police action and

14

As we go to the Press

Anand Bazaar Patrika (Suprakash Chakravarti) has reported on
24th November 2006 that, “An Empowered Group of Central Ministers
has been constituted at the top most level to keep a strict watch for
the suppression of Naxalites. This indicates that the other high level
committees constituted so far are not being considered sufficient to
deal with the situation. This group formed with the special sanction of
the  Prime  Minister  consists  of  7  Central  Ministers  including  Home
Minister Shivraj Patil, Finance Minister P. Chidambaram, and Ministers
for  Rural  Development,  Panchayati  Raj  Institutions,  Forests  &
Environment, Tribal Affairs and Law and Justice. The Deputy Chairman
of  the  Planning  Commission  Montek  Singh Ahluwalia  shall  be  a
permanent invitee. The group shall include the Chief Ministers of Naxal-
affected  states  –  West  Bengal,  Orissa,  Bihar,  Jharkhand, Andhra
Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. Clearance has been obtained
for co-opting Chief Ministers of other states and other Central Ministers
if necessary. The agenda for the group, as laid down by the Cabinet
Secretary, is to enhance more meaningful and effective co-ordination
between  the  Centre  and  States,  recommend  exchange  of  officials
(security), and to carry out a thorough-going analysis of the Naxalite
problem including political, security and socio-economic aspects.”

Some  well  meaning  intellectuals  are  urging  that  the
revolutionaries  should  engage  in  talks  with  the  government.  In  this
situation when, it is clear that the State is gearing up for more and
more  brutal  assault  -  not  only  through  military  escalation,  vigilante
groups and informer networks against the  revolutionaries, but also
through increased repression on the vast masses of the people; when
the  government  is  refusing  to  negotiate  with  agitating  peasants,
displaced adivasis, striking workers; when they are not prepared to
permit even the revolutionary womens organization Mahila Mukti Manch
to  observe  8th  March  at Ambikapur  (district  Sarguja,  Chhattisgarh).
Where is the question of holding talks? We earnestly appeal to the
intellectuals to consider this question deeply.

 CPI (Maoist)

Chhattisgarh  State  Committee
3

A NOTE TO THE READERS

This booklet is not a theoretical work. It is an attempt to compile
lively factual detail from the ground, from the so-called mainstream
media and journals, reputed  researchers and experts and most of
all from the enemy itself about what is happening in Bastar today,
and  its  relation  with  the  world  situation.  We  have  minimized
references to party documents because we are confident that an
honest analysis of the facts, a “joining of the dots” can only give a
picture that vindicates our party’s understanding.

In the appendix, we have included two replies from our central
leadership which answer some serious questions that are raised by
many intellectuals . Though, these two are independent publications,
these deal with some of the central issues on the subject matter of
this booklet. So, we have provided these here so that much of the
imprtant related matter is available to the readers in one place.

Today  there  is  an  unprecedented  hatred  among  the  broad
masses of people all over the world against imperialism, manifested
as the American Empire, bringing hunger, devastation, and war in its
wake. There is also growing  resistance exemplified by Iraq. No doubt
the  revolutionary  forces  are  relatively  weak  in  the  face  of  this
challenge, and after the capitalist restoration in USSR and China,
revisionism poses the gravest threat ideologically. Yet Comrade Mao
has  taught  us  that  even  a  small  force,  which  has  grasped  the
ideological line firmly and which is deeply integrated with the masses
in its  revolutionary practice, can prove to be the spark that starts the
prairie fire. At this juncture our party, the CPI (Maoist), having supreme
confidence  in  the  struggling  people,  is  giving  a  determined  fight
ideologically against revisionism, politically against imperialism and
its lackeys, and militarily against the armed forces of the Indian State
in Dandakaranya, Jharkhand, Bihar, and all over India.

The  people  of  India  are  struggling  everywhere  –  usually
spontaneously, limitedly. They are often cheated, most often betrayed
and always brutally repressed. The purpose of this booklet is to bring
4

CHAPTER  ONE

A Factual Description of Salwa Judum
The Origin of Salwa Judum is in the Police Headquarters.
To call it a spontaneous movement is a fascist lie.

An untitled video given to a fact finding team of the Independent
Citizens’  Initiative (which visited Dantewada between 17th-22nd May
2006), by  Brigadier Ponwar of the Counter Insurgency and Jungle
Warfare College, Kanker, as a video made by the police, speaks clearly
of ‘Operation Salwa Judum’ beginning as early as January 2005, when
the police launched overt and covert operations to mobilize villagers
against the Maoists.

In  the  early  phases  of  the  campaign  (from  June  2005),  the
invitations to mobilize people for the Salwa Judum meetings, and press
releases about them were issued in the name of one ‘Sodi Deva’ who
was not traceable. Rather, on investigation by local journalists, these
invitations and press releases turned out to be emanating from the
office of the Inspector General of Police in Jagdalpur.

Ian Welsh in a report “Writ of the State in India” comments aptly

on an official document prepared by the Collector:

“An official Government document - The Work proposal for the
‘People’s  Movement against Naxalites’ drawn up by the Collector of
Dantewara  in  2005  -  clearly  spells  out  the  modalities  of  the  Salwa
Judum’s  operation.  The  document  mentions  the  need  to  give  the
movement  prominent  leadership,  specifies  how  much  funding  is
necessary and what tasks must be conducted by which department.
For  example,  the  police  must  identify  friendly  villages  to  know  how
many are with the police and how many are with the Naxalites, and
create village defence committees. Chapter 4, paragraph 9 says that
informers will not trust government unless their information is
immediately acted upon and Naxalites are shot and killed.  The
police should not wait for written complaints. Paragraph 10 notes that
if innocents die in large operations , higher up authorities must
keep quiet. Unless Maoists are killed in large numbers people will

13

The imperialist onslaught on the people of India - its ‘hidden war’;
its ‘battle’ against more than 8 crore people of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand
and Orissa for the exploitation of mineral riches, and its ‘new front’
against the people of Bastar in the form of operation Salwa Judum, is
comparable to the situation in West Asia both in terms of the enormity
of human suffering and political significance.

It is with this seriousness that we request the readers to study

the  situation in Bastar.

* * *

to them the shining example of the people’s war of resistance in
Bastar, where under the leadership of the party, the masses of adivasi
people are bravely engaging at the very battlefront of the imperialist
onslaught, to stop the loot of the country and the adivasi areas in
particular, and to bring about a new society.

Finally, we dedicate this booklet to all the martyrs, from
Bastar to Iraq,  who are laying down their lives each day, to
give death blows to the monstrous imperialist war machine.

30-11-2006.

CPI  (Maoist)

Chhattisgarh  State  Committee

12

5

                             CONTENTS

Introduction                                                  7

Chapter 1
Chapter 2

A Factual Description of Salwa Judum       13
The Class Basis: Concrete  role of            34
the Feudals, CBB & Imperialists

Chapter 3

LPG Onslaught: No less than a war           43
against  the whole people

Chapter 4

The Mechanisms of Imperialist Rule:         67
Politico-Economic & Politico-Military

Chapter 5

The State sends out its invading               75
occupational army

Chapter 6

The People’s War of Resistance                85
in Bastar (Chhattisgarh) & Jharkhand

                        Conclusion                                                    94

Appendix 1

Letter of the CPI (Maoist) to the ICI.

           102

Appendix 2

Excerpts from the article “Maoists in India -   116
A Rejoinder”, sent by the CPI (Maoist) to the
                          Economic & Political Weekly in reply to an

issue of the same name.

6

Chhattisgarh, and to perpetuate their kingdom of loot.

The tribals of Bastar are going through a horrifying time. More
than 50 thousand have been forcibly uprooted from their villages and
detained  in  the  concentration  camps,  ironically  called  relief  camps.
Over 600 villages have been emptied in this manner. The other half of
the population is being hunted for by the ‘security forces’. More than
200 tribals have been killed by the state police, Naga 9th IR Batallion,
the CRPF and the Salwa Judum goons. Many of them are women.
More than 30 women have been gang-raped by these forces, many of
them were killed subsequently. Over 2000 houses were burnt in more
than 100 villages because these tribals were not wanting to join the
government sponsered Salwa Judum   operation. Para-military forces
Naga, Mizo, CRPF etc. that have been  deployed at a massive scale,
are behaving like invading, occupation armies. Killing of a Dornapal
trader by Naga soldiers after a petty dispute over  Rs. 15 on October
15, 2006 is only the latest of so many of such incidents.

The Indian State has started an all-out campaign to crush what it
percieves  as  “the  biggest  threat  to  it  since  ‘Independence’  ”  -  the
menace of Maoism. Both the army and the air force are being involed
in anti-Naxalite  operations.

The  Communist  Party  of  India  (Maoist),  on  the  other  hand,  is
leading the tribals of Bastar in a heroic resistance against the economic
and military onslaught of the imperialists, the compradors and their
feudal  allies. About  one  and  a  half  lakh  tribals  have  organized
themselves  in  the  Maoist  mass-organizations.  Even  the  DGP  of
Chhattisgarh, O.P. Rathore admits that this number is 45 to 50 thousand,
which is a sigificant proportion of a thinly populated region such as
Bastar. In the present round, the  massive offensive of the state forces
has been beaten back by the PLGA, militias and mass organisations
keeping the politico-military initiative.

 The occupation of Iraq by the U.S. army for control over crude
oil  and  for  world  dominance,  and  the  heroic  resistance  of  the  Iraqi
people has  attracted attention world over. So has the resistance of
the people of Lebanon, Palestine and Afghanistan. The people have
shown  once  again,  that  in  the  strategic  sense,  the  imperialists  are
paper  tigers.

11

Chhattisgarh, Punjab and U.P. opposing privatisation; or the teachers
employed  as  shiksha  karmis.The  onslaught  is  devastating  and  all-
sided.

As the magazine Business World (August 2006) has depicted on
its cover page, the mineral rich states of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and
Orissa have indeed been turned into ‘a battle ground’ with Tata, Essar,
Mittal, Vedanta, Jindal, Posco, Ambani signing up MOUs primarily to
exploit the vast natural resources available in these three states, in a
growth without employment model. Lakhs of peasants, mostly adivasis
will be displaced if these plans succeed.

  In  the  Bastar  region  of  Chhattisgarh  where  the  Maoists  have
succeeded in developing a guerilla zone/guerilla base; they have called
for  a  halt  to  the  export  of  rich  iron  ore  to  Japan  from  the  Bailadila
mines.They have also opposed the supply of our own iron-ore to the
MNCs  and  the  big  compradors  at  dirt  cheap  price,  while  over  400
small industrialists of Chhattisgarh, Orissa and Jharkhand are charged
many fold more. It is amply clear to everyone concerned, that it will not
be smooth sailing for the imperialist big capital and the compradors of
India when they attempt to exploit the rich mineral resources of Bastar,
Chhattisgarh. For there, the people have already taken up the fight
against the loot of their land, under the leadership of the CPI (Maoist)
and the PLGA.

Marxist-Leninist-Maoists oppose the ruthless exploitation of the
globe, its natural resources and people, the overwhelming vast majority
by minute minority imperialists with Marx’s vision that,

“ From the standpoint of a higher economic form of society, private
ownership of the globe by the single individuals will appear quite  as
absurd as private ownership of one man by another. Even a whole
society, a nation, or even all simultaneously existing societies taken
together, are not the owners of the globe. They are only its possessors,
its  usufructuaries,  and,  like  boni  patres  familias,  they  must  hand  it
down  to  succeeding  generations  in  an  improved  condition.”  (Marx,
Capital, Vol. III, 776)

It is amply clear that the government has opened up this ‘new
front’ - the tribal genocide operation under the name of Salwa Judum
- to crush the economic and political aspirations of the people of Bastar-
10

INTRODUCTION
NTRODUCTION
NTRODUCTION
NTRODUCTION
NTRODUCTION

There remains a great confusion among the vast masses of India
as  to  what  exactly  is  happening  in  Bastar  in  the  present  war-like
situation.  The  corporate  controlled  media  has  been  functioning  as
the  Goebbelsian  propaganda  arm  of  the  Indian  state.  With  utter
disregard for the devastation caused to lakhs of adivasis/tribals, or to
the truth on the ground, the press hand-outs by combatant officials
come out as news.

The  well  known  agents  of  imperialists  like  Manmohan,
Chidambaram, Montek and Raman Singh are running governments
on  the  dictat  of  their  imperialist  masters.  They  have  a  political
compulsion to hide from the masses of India, the real objective of this
massive  deployment  of  forces  -  the  blatant  loot  of  rich  mineral
resources,  not  only  of  Bastar,  but  also  of  Chhattisgarh,  Jharkhand
and Orissa. The propaganda efforts are geared to hide this connection
between imperialist loot and war on its own people.

But  their  imperialist  masters  have  no  such  compulsion.  The
leading lights of their international media such as The Guardian, The
Newyork Times, The Washington Post and The Economist are quite
outspoken on what lies 'inside India's hidden war.'
It is under this title that the Guardian reports:
“  Indian  paramilitary  forces  have  backed  this  militia  known  as
Salwa-Judum (peace march) against Naxalites, turning the forest into
a battlefield. Entire villages have been emptied as tribal communities
flee from the burning, lootings and killings. The civil conflict has left
more than 50,000 people camping under tarpaulin sheets without work
or food along the roadsides of southern Chhattisgarh.

Campaigners  say  that  the  reason  why  the  government  has
opened a new front in this battle lies beneath ...some of the country’s
richest reserves of iron ore, coal, limestone and bauxite.”

The Guardian has also noted that the ‘extremists’, about whom
B.  Muthuraman,  M.D.Tata  Steel  is  concerned  so  gravely  after  the
gruesome Kalinga Nagar killings, “are now at the centre of a corporate
debate over how to exploit resources in the mineral rich but poverty
7

stricken tribal belt in India.”

John  Lancaster  for  The  Washington  Post  was  witness  to
determined  opposition  to  imperialist  loot,  when  he  interviewed  the
Maoist  spokesperson  in  heavily  forested  Bastar.  He  heard  slogans
like, “ Stop corrupting Adivasi Culture to Make it Market Culture Under
the Guise of Tourism” and a song that included the line “America and
Japan are big exploiters of this country.”

The Economist also notes the same determined opposition based
on a clear theoretical understanding, when it records the statement of
Ganesh Ueike, secretary of the West Bastar Divisional Committee of
CPI(Maoist),  “He  said  his  party  was  facing  renewed  suppression,
because the resources of  finance capitalism are facing sluggishness
in their development, and are looking for new routes such as mineral
riches of this forest.”

Another  influential  magazine  of  the  imperialists,  The  Newyork
Times observes that the Chhattisgarh government is negotiating about
$1.8 billion in private investment, mostly in the mining industry, which
the insurgents violently oppose. It also puts down frankly the Salwa
Judum’s aim of ‘clearing the villages one by one to break the Maoist
web of support’ and quotes its leader Mahendra Karma as saying “
Unless you cut off the source of disease, the disease will remain, the
source is the people, the villagers.”

Jill McGiveri for the BBC and The Economist completely identfies
herself with the present imperialist venture of promoting Salwa Judum
gangs  when  she  wistfully  recalls  that  “during  the  Vietnam  war  the
Mantagnard militias were among the bravest and most effective local
anti-communist force, given the right leadership and support.”

 Bearing this ‘white man’s burden’, the U.S. administration is closely
monitoring this battlefront. The Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Raman
Singh visited U.S. and Canada in May 2005. There he was sufficiently
‘energised’ to carry out the genocidal operation against adivasis that
started in the name of Salwa Judum in June 2005. In March 2006, a
senior U.S. official Michael Owen visited Raipur and met Raman Singh.
During his stay, he is reported to have stated that the Naxalite problem
will  have  an  adverse  effect  on  investors.  He  also  publicly  offered
assistance to ‘tackle’ this problem. Two U.S. officials William Inman
8

and Kevin Green visited Raipur in May 2006. William Inman is supposed
to be an expert of sorts with four years experience of dealing with the
situation in Iraq. These U.S. officials also visited the Counter Terrorism
and  Jungle  Warfare  College,  at  Kanker  (in  Bastar,  Chhattisgarh).  It
seems that the masters have taught their  lessons well. Brigadier B.K.
Ponwar, director, Warfare College, proudly states, “We taught them
whatever the U.S. troops were learning in Iraq.” (TOI, Oct.4,2006)
Additional Chief Secretary (Home) of Chhattisgarh - B.K.S. Ray, met
these  U.S.  officials  on  May  23,  2006  and  shamelessly  sought  U.S.
assistance to curb Naxalism. The U.S. government has already put
the Maoists of India in its list of terrorist organizations.

Prominent Indian journalist Praful Bidwai has noted that an attempt
is underway to break up tribal communities into the equivalent of the
‘strategic hamlets’ which the U.S. created in Vietnam.

The Economist also calls the displacement of thousands of tribals
in  Bastar  a  ‘scorched  village’  policy  to  starve  the  Maoists  of  local
support. It is pertinent that in 2002, U.S. had sent its forces to Colombia
to lead a  military campaign against the leftist peoples’ army FARC.
The same ‘scorched earth policy’ directed against the civilian population
was  pursued  there,  as  admitted  by  a  former  general  of  the  U.S.  -
James Hill. General Richard B. Myers of the U.S. Air Force has been
quoted  ,  ‘this  policy  must  be  mirrored  around  the  world.’  (Analytic
Monthly Reveiw, September 2005)

 In terms of its devastating consequences, the onslaught of the
imperialists-comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie-local feudals combine
in  India  in  the  name  of  LPG  (liberalization,  privatization  and
globalization) is no less than a war against its own people. According
to govt. figures over one lakh peasants have committed suicide in the
last ten years. Where the people refuse to die silently, inevitably the
Indian State shows its true colours with the package of lathi, firing and
jail.  This  has  been  the  experience    everywhere  -  whether  it  is  the
peasants of Rajasthan demanding water for irrigation; the adivasis of
Kalinga Nagar, Kashipur, Lanjigarh, Koelkaro or the Narmada Bachao
Andolan;  the  peasants  of  Singur  in  W.  Bengal,  the  peasants  in  the
proposed  SEZ  areas  fighting  against  displacement;  the  workers  in
Gurgaon or Bhilai fighting for basic rights; the electricity workers of
9

Christopher Warren, President of the International Federation of
Journalists has stated, “Intimidation of journalists and preventing them
from  carrying  out  their  profession  is  unacceptable  under  any
circumstances, but when reporting on  conflict, journalists are already
in a precarious position between combatant parties. Only when they
are allowed to report independently and without fear, can a genuine
democracy  be  said  to  be  in  place...Under  no  circumstances  has
gagging the media and silencing journalists furthered the objective of
tackling armed conflict. “

Newswatch  India  reports:  ”Naxalite  activities  are  making  the
Chhattisgarh  government see red everywhere. Pushed on the backfoot
over increased Maoist violence in the state, the government has decided
one of the ways to control  ultra-Left insurgency is by training its guns
on  the  press.  The  State Assembly  has  passed  a  controversial  Bill,
barring  the  media  from  carrying  reports  of  any  kind  of  ‘unlawful
activities’ (read Naxal/Maoist violence) in the state.”
“Chhattisgarh Special Public Security Act”--the blackest
law

This Chhattisgarh Special Public Security Act (CSPSA) has been
called even more draconian than TADA and POTA by various human
rights organisations. The definition of unlawful activities encompasses
every sort of dissent. And any assistance, even unintentional, to an
organisation  declared  unlawful,  is  punishable  with  long  periods  of
imprisonment without any provision for bail or appeal. Not only our
party - the CPI (Maoist), but even the mass organisations - DAKMS,
KAMS, KABS, Krantikari Kisan Committee and Mahila Mukti Manch
have  been  banned  under  this Act.  For  which  public?  For  whose
security?

Clearly  the  State  was  planning  to  target  broad  masses  of  the
adivasi people with this black law but the widespread protest against
this Act has proved a check. The Chhattisgarh PUCL and other human
rights  organisations  from  all  over  the    country  held  a  candlelight
procession on the night of 24th June 2006 and a well   attended protest
rally on 25th June in the State capital Raipur demanding the scrapping
of  this Act.  Over  one  thousand  industrial  workers  of  the  Ultratech
32

options. In 1966 when Mizo National Front guerillas overran Aizawl,
the government retaliated with massive counter-insurgency  operations,
as part of which they regrouped Mizo villages into virtual concentration
camps in order to deny rebels hiding in the hills access to food and
water. Tens of thousands of villagers were uprooted and dumped into
these camps. Instead of quelling the rebellion, the move spurred more
young Mizos to join the rebels.

What was worse, the counter-insurgency operations destroyed
the structure of Mizo society, its symbiotic relationship with the land
and contributed much to the alienation of Mizos from mainstream India.
Similar  strategies  used  in  the  Philipines  and  East  Timor  to  quell
rebellions had terrible effects.”

The  same  is  now  being  carried  out  at  a  much  larger  scale  in

South Bastar.

‘The  Economist’    (17 August,  2006)  observes:    “Salwa  Judum
itself is also responsible for displacing people - a “scorched village”
policy intended to starve the Maoists of local support. This recognises
that the Naxalites’ real strength lies not in their guerrillas in the jungle,
with their peaked caps and “country-made” rifles, but in their civilian
networks in the villages themselves.”

The well known journalist Praful Bidwai notes: “ ..An attempt is
also underway to break up tribal communities into the equivalent of
strategic hamlets which the U.S. created in Vietnam. This model isn’t
as far-fetched as it might appear. Last fortnight, two U.S. Embassy
officials met the Chhattisgarh chief secretary to offer ‘assistance’ in
fighting Naxalites. Although the   government hasn’t accepted the offer,
it’s following the same approach to  insurgencies that the US favours.”
The  experience  of  U.S.  direct  military  intervention  in  Colombia
against the FARC-EP (Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia
- Ejercito del Pueblo) or the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia
- Peoples’ Army, also brings to the fore the same genocidal ‘scorched
earth’ policy, directed not  against the leftist rebels but mainly against
the  whole  population  which  supports  them. The Analytical  Monthly
Review  (September  2005)  has  carried  an  article  “The  FARC-EP  in
Colombia: A Revolutionary Exception in an Age of Imperialist Expansion”
wherein the plan of US imperialism to intervene all over the globe is
17

illustrated well. Here are some excerpts:

“..... A  direct  offensive  campaign  of  armed  aggression  against
Colombia called Plan Patriota was started. Assaults have been carried
out  by  conjoined  US  military  and  private  combatants,  leading  over
20,000  Colombian  soldiers  in  a  scorched  earth  policy  largely
concentrated in the southern Colombian departments of Putumayo,
Caqueta, Narino, and Meta.

In October 2002, reports were leaked indicating that US marines
were on “orders to eliminate all high officials of FARC,” “ scattering
those who escape to the remote corners of the Amazon.”

US Air  Force  General  Richard  B.  Myers  claimed  that  “  we  are
winning” and that “the cooperation between the US and Colombia must
be mirrored around the world.”

Unnamed US officials are quoted as claiming that FARC has been
significantly degraded and now there is no portion of the country where
Colombian forces cannot go. In the past there were huge swathes of
land that FARC dominated.

Despite the propaganda that Plan Patriota was aimed at fighting
the FARC, what is really happenning is an attempt to “ drain the sea.”
The  target  is  the  unarmed  peasantry  which  is  the  real  force  of  the
rebel. James Hill - the former general of the US Southern Command,
admitted that the reformulated campaign began with an attack on rural
areas where local peasant farmers support the FARC, not against the
guerrilla army itself.”

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  contrary  to  the  high  claims  of  the
imperialists, the strength of the FARC people’s army has grown inspite
of, or say because of, the struggle against the open imperialist attacks.
The  combatant  force  of  FARC  was  18,000  in  1992,  and  32,000  in
1994. It increased to 40,000 in 2002 and by 2004 it had gone upto
50,000.

The same phenomenon is being witnessed in Bastar, where even
the Collector  is having to admit that “after the initiation of Salwa
Judum, there has been a spurt in the recruitment of the Maoists.”
Hundreds of villages have turned into fortresses with the adivasi people
preferring  to  join  the  just      resistance  under  the  leadership  of  the
18

atrocities  in  Mankeli  began  to  filter  out,  Paikra’s  life  was  made
miserable.  The  permit  for  his  fair  price  shop,  which  Paikra  ran  to
supplement his meagre income as a journalist, was cancelled. Even
his movements were physically restricted, and Salwa Judum personnel
prevented him from travelling outside Bijapur, especially to camps of
displaced  persons.

 Following a human rights team’s press release, the administration
was further irked and a false case was lodged against Paikra’s elder
brother Tarkeshwar Singh, headmaster of a village school, who was
arrested on 1 December on grounds of possessing Naxalite literature
and  uniforms.  Singh  was  released  on  bail  after  two  weeks,  but  the
case is still pending. Kamlesh Paikra was forced to move along with
his wife and parents to Dantewada town.

The ‘Chattisgarh Shramjivi Patrakar Sangh’ (Chattisgarh Working
Journalists Union), petitioned the Chief Minister Dr Raman Singh and
Governor  Lt  Gen  KM  Seth  to  provide  security  to  enable  Paikra  to
return to Bijapur. There has been no response to this petition, and his
life continues to be at risk.

Another  Bijapur  based  journalist  Laxman  Singh  Kusram  was
threatened  by    police  in  January  2006  after  reporting  in  a  local
publication that women had been beaten up by the CRPF jawans.

Journalists Sanjay Reddy and Anwar Khan had reported rampant
corruption in the name of supplies to Salwa Judum camps. They showed
that  there  were    serious  discrepancies  between  the  official  figures
provided  by  the  SDM  (16,000)  and  Collector  (29,000)  of  persons
residing  in  the  camps  in  their  area.  They  were  called  to  the  police
thana and beaten up by Salwa Judum goons while the police looked
on.  They  were  beaten  so  badly  that  they  had  to  be  hospitalized  in
Bhadrachalam, Andhra Pradesh. Subsequently these journalists had
sat on dharna at Jagdalpur.

Local Member of Parliament and BJP leader Baliram Kashyap
created a sensation when he came out with a statement on September
1,  2006  threatening  that  journalists  who  glorify  Maoists  should  be
killed.(It is the same BJP MP who was involved in accepting bribe from
Ajit Jogi and his son Amit.)

31

there  would  be  a  Salwa  Judum  rally  at  Bhopalpatnam.  One  or  two
newspapers  even  published  his  claim  that  40,000  persons  had
gathered for this. But not a single photograph was published. In reality
a  few  hundred  of  Salwa  Judum  goons  protected  by  police  and
paramilitary forces marched from Madded to Bhopalpatnam spreading
terror  in  their  wake.  They  molested  a  girl,  daughter  of  the  Patel  of
Gollaguda – a village about 2 km away from Bhopalpatnam, as she
was going to serve food to her father in the fields. In the Bhopalpatnam
High  School  Maidan  they  burnt  the  effigies  of  Mahendra  Karma’s
political opponents Ajit Jogi and Manish Kunjam who oppose Salwa
Judum.  They  tried  to  force  people  to  come  up  on  stage  to  support
Salwa Judum. Later behind the High School they called the Kotwars
(village police officers) of several villages and beat them. Two Kotwars
became unconscious. A journalist Mohammed Afzal was beaten on
the hands resulting in a fracture. The mood of the villagers is going
from terror to anger, they are resolving that if the Salwa Judum comes
again they will fight them to the finish.

It is well known in Bastar that in the Usoor area about 5000 persons
have  shifted  to  the  forest  and  in  the  leadership  of  the  party  are
participating  in  the  just  and  inevitable  resistance  against  the  Salwa
Judum.
“Training the guns on the press”

The  case  of  Kamlesh  Paikra,  the  Bijapur  correspondent  with
Hindsatt, a daily published from Jagdalpur, is typical of the situation of
journalists    in Bastar. Paikra’s regular reporting on Maoist activities in
Dantewada  district  drew  attention  of  the  police.  In April  2005,  D  L
Manhar,  the  Superintendent  of  Police  hadsummoned  him  and
demanded  that  he  reveal  his  sources.  But  adhering  to  journalistic
ethics,he  refused  to  do  so.  The  SP  then  warned  Paikra  of  “dire
consequences”.  Incidentally  this  is      the  same  SP  whose  wireless
message “If any journalist comes to report  on Naxalites -kill them”
was recorded by our party and sent to the press.In  September 2005,
around 50 houses were burnt in Mankeli village, 15km from Bijapur by
the Salwa Judum. Kamlesh Paikra’s report on this incident published
in the September 8th issue of Hindsatt generated wide concern, and
resulted in a visit to Mankeli by a team of the CPI. When news of the
30

Maoists  rather  than  suffer  subjugation  in  silence.  Thousands  have
gone to the forests to swell the ranks of the PLGA and militias, and in
fact a new “Koya Bhoomkal Militia” has been formed.
Initiation of Salwa Judum in June 2005

Kutru area from where Salwa Judum is supposed to have started
lies in South-West Bastar , south of the river Indravati. The area north
of the Indravati is the Maad area of 12000 sq. km which is the strong-
hold of the party and the security forces have not been able to enter
there for a long time. On the other hand, the area south of the river
Indravati, is relatively weak, so far as the revolutionary organization is
concerned. By 2003, repression here had increased with   massive
deployment of CRPF.

 On May 24, 2005 the PLGA carried out an ambush in Karremarka
killing 5 CRPF jawans. The State retaliated by putting in action their
cold-blooded work-plan of forcibly carrying the adivasis with them as
human shields in their military operations.

Immediately after the blast of Karremarka, a meeting was called
in the village Usakipatanam on June 5, 2005 in which leaders of DAKMS
of the area were also called and then treachorously handed over to
the police. Next, in the leadership of Collector K.R. Pisda and Mahendra
Karma, a meeting of about 3000 was held in Maatwada. About 1000 of
this Salwa Judum crowd went and attacked village Kotrapal. Most of
the members of this crowd were taken along forcibly and there were
only a small number of hard-core elements. The villagers of Kotrapal
had already become aware of this attack and they were ready to face
it, only the youth had stayed back and the old and children were sent
to the forest. Accordingly, the attacking crowd was resisted and had to
make a hasty retreat. 12 members of the attacking Salwa Judum crowd
were taken hostage and one was killed after being tried in a jan-adaalat.
After this incident, whatever has been carried out in the name of
Salwa Judum campaign, has been an operation of the state armed
forces with Salwa Judum as its vigilante wing.

This new mode of operation carried out by the security forces is
aptly described in the words of the perpetrators themselves, as narrated
to  the All  India Team  of  Human  Rights  Organisations  which  visited
19

Dantewada between 28th November and 1st December 2005:.

Laxman Kashyap , a local leader of Salwa Judum has described

gleefully,

 “This is what happened in Bangapal, sir. On August 3, we had a
meeting  in  Munder  village.  Villagers  from  Munder  ran  away  to  the
hills.  The  Naga  Batallion  went  to  the  hill,  caught  them  and  brought
them back, and made them join the Salwa Judum. Those who were
unwilling to join were arrested.”

The  Independent  Citizens’  Initiative  report  has  reproduced  the
wireless message of the Former Superintendent of Police, Bijapur D.L.
Manhar  issuing  instructions  regarding  Salwa  Judum,  which  was
recorded  by  the  party  and  released  to  the  press  in August  2005  in
Raipur. An extract of the English translation of the transcript is produced
below:

0.13

4 .25

8.11
8.18

8.24
8.32

8.43

The villages which have joined in Jagran (Salwa Judum)
two lakh rupees have been sanctioned for  them.
Take care of that side. All officers and the forces
should be distributed on all sides. And be on high alert.
If any journalist comes to report on Naxalites -
kill them. Did you understand? Roger Sir.
Three encounters happened . Nine people died.
And all the grain storages have been burned by the
Jan Jagaran people.
Today Kotrapal sangham members will surrender.
They are saying people are dying on the other side, no
development is happening so they will surrender today.
The Jan Jagaran are telling the villagers very clearly, “
you come with us the first time, or the second time. If
you do not come the third time we will burn your village.

 The same wireless message also includes:
……”Any  party,  any  thana,  can  be  asked  for  encirclement
operation  ..because  when  it  happens,  they  run  helter-skelter.  It
happened  so  now  in  Kotrapal.  Nine  are  dead,  others  escaped.  If  a
party  had  come  from  the  other  side,  whole  gang  would  have  been

20

with big corporate groups, could not digest this and he accordingly
directed  the  Collector  to  grant  permission.  What  does  the      media
have to say about this rally?

“It was the first time that people had seen such a big rally against
Salwa Judum. The rally started at about 11.30 am and reached the
High  School  Ground.  Vehicular  traffic  came  to  a  halt  in  the  city  for
about two and a half hours... The villagers in the rally were shouting
slogans to stop Salwa Judum and against Essar.”    (Dainik Bhaskar,
15 November 2006)

“More than 50,000 villagers came walking 150 to 200 kilometres
to say that they do not want Salwa Judum... By participating in this
huge rally which was taken out after permission was granted by the
High Court, the villagers showed it was not possible to solve the Naxalite
problem by Salwa Judum. The villagers also raised a lot of slogans
against  Mahendra  Karma  and  also  opposed  Tata  and  Essar  in
Bastar.... They had come by their own means over the past four days...
The  district  administration  and  top  officials  of  intelligence  agencies
,Collector, SP, CRPF commandant and other security agencies were
keeping a close watch on the law and order situation ... According to
knowledgable sources this rally was about one and a half times the
rally  which  was  held  to  demand  inclusion  of  Bastar  in  the  Sixth
Schedule... Leader of the Opposition Mahendra Karma, sitting at Delhi
was getting minute to minute information regarding the rally from his
activists.  It  is  pertinent  that  in  this  rally  and  meeting  the  villagers
expressed  greatest  anger  against  Shri  Karma.”    (Navbharat,  15
Novemvber 2006)

In  the  Madded-Bhopalpatnam  area,  despite  all  the  efforts  of
Mahendra  Karma  and  his  Salwa  Judum  goons,  the  villagers  have
continuously refused to allow Salwa Judum to be initiated here. In fact
a large number of villages had passed Gram Sabha resolutions to this
effect.  In  the  month  of  October  2006  a  number  of  panchayat
representatives  (sarpanches,  panches  and  janpad  members)  had
taken a press conference in Raipur regarding Salwa Judum excesses
and atrocities, and their opposition to this brutal operation. The Salwa
Judum had attacked them at Bijapur when they were returning in a
jeep. On 14th November 2006 Mahendra Karma had announced that
29

All  thanas  we  had  the  opportunity  to  observe  -  including  at
Nelasnaar,  Bhairamgarh,  Kutru  and  Karkeli  had  inside  their  heavily
barbed wire  boundaries, the brick barracks of the SPOs (of men and
women) surrounding the main police/CRPF/SAF thana....Usually the
SPO’s lead ‘gasht’ (patrols) while the  police follow. From Karkeli - a
village  of  60  households,  66  SPOs  including  11  women  have  been
recruited. Thus this village has been militarized for counter insurgency
taking advantage of the dire situation of the adivasis. ...... in the same
village there is not even one health worker..

.... We were also told that when women come from such villages
(which have refused to move to the camps) to buy rations at the weekly
haat they are chased away by the SPOs and paramilitary on the pretext
that they are  supplying rice to the Naxalites. Thus these villages are
being starved. We personally witnessed the bullying and initimidating
behaviour  of  the  SPOs  and  paramilitary  in  the  Bodli  Haat  and  the
Bhairamgarh Bazaar.”
People are rejecting Salwa Judum

In  spite  of  the  media  management  of  the  government,
considerable protests have filtered out against the Salwa Judum, from
a  broad  spectrum  of  organisations  in  Chhattisgarh,  like  the  quasi-
governmental Adivasi  Vikas  Parishad,  local  adivasi  MLAs  and
Sarpanches, a section of the Congress led by former Chief Minister
Ajit  Jogi,  the  Gondwana  Gantantra  Party,  Jan  Mukti  Morcha,  the
parliamentary left parties, the Chhattisgarh Mukti Morcha and trade
unions affiliated with it, the Chhattisgarh PUCL and various other human
rights organisations from all over the country.

The Adivasi Mahasabha had made an application to the Collector
for permission to hold a rally jointly with the CPI on 14th November,
2006 at  Dantewada to oppose Salwa Judum and the land acquisitions
being  carried  out  at  gunpoint  for  the Tata  and  Essar  groups. The
Collector Dantewada refused. The reason? The by-election due to be
held at Kota (Bilaspur) at a distance of more than 500 kilometres away!
Even the Chief Justice of the State, who had recently dismissed writ
petitions praying for quashing of MOUs with Tata and Essar, and about
whom it is common knowledge that he solicits dalali   arrangements

28

dead. These are the things and nine who are dead, of the two they
have reported in Jangla thana to the contrary saying that it was by
Naxalites.  Look  at  the  trick  and  the  intelligence  of  our  inspectors
……..who has been killed in the encounter they are saying that he
has been killed by the Naxalites so that there is propaganda in the
people  and  they      immediately  get  one  lakh  rupees  each.….”
(Deshbandhu August 2, 2006)

It is surprising that this portion of the wireless message showing
blatant   abetment of murder by SP Manhar has been omitted by the
ICI report. This officer was subsequently transferred …... only to be
attached to the State Human Rights Commission!
Atrocities by Salwa Judum: Murder,Rape, Arson and
Loot.

Our party, the CPI(Maoist) has released lists of the adivasis killed,
of  the    incidents  of  rape  and  sexual  assault  on  women,  and  of  the
villages in which houses have been burnt. The party even released a
video  CD  showing  the  brutalities  perpetuated  by  the  Salwa  Judum
and the para-military, which was delivered by hand to the residences
of the MLAs in the capital city - Raipur.

If any of the law enforcing agencies had had an iota of intention
to take action against these horrifying violations of human rights, there
was more than enough information provided by the party to do so, but
true to their class character they remained silent.

But  a  broad  cross  section  of  the  ‘mainstream  media’  and
‘mainstream parties and organisations‘ have also reported that heinous
atrocities have been committed on a wide scale in the name of Salwa
Judum, and we are extracting from some of these reports below:

A fact finding team of the Communist Party of India reports the
killing of Bere Santu of Eitu village and Sukhram of Palnar village by
the  CRPF. This  report  also  describes  the  incidents  of  burning,  loot
and beating up by CRPF and the Salwa Judum combine in Murbedi,
Kavad, Burji, Malur, Tamodi and Manjhimendri villages.

The news magazine Outlook of May 15,2006 reports:
“ Marvinda and his family have just arrived from a refugee camp
21

at Shevnar (to their village Irulipallan) about 10 km away, to inspect
the old, burnt remains of their home before cooking and eating lunch.
Later, they will trudge back to the camp, completing what has virtually
become a daily ritual since October 2005 , when the administration
forced them to leave their village.

Marvinda says, “ I don’t want to leave. But the police beat me,
tied my hands and hung me upside down from a tree. Then the Salwa
Judum burnt our huts. They said if we didn’t want to leave our villages,
we must be Naxalites.”

According to the author of this article, Smita Gupta, the Collector
of Dantewada – K.R. Pisda said to her: ”If you are not a Naxalite,
you must join the Salwa Judum. There is no third choice.”

This statement reeks ominously of Bush and indeed “The air smells

of sulphur” in Dantewada.

The Independent Citizens’ Initiative team has reported many such

incidents-

 “ We met villagers from Cherli (Hariyal) now in Mirtur camp, who
named ten people from their village who were killed in early September
2005, in what appears to have been cross-fire between the police and
the Maoists. …………Villagers of Kondapal told us that one Vettri Joga
had been killed in their village. These eleven names corroborated
the  information  on  the  Maoist  list  of  civilians  killed  (including
names and date of the incident) ……….. The pro-Maoist  journal
People’s March (January, 2006) ... claims that 10 villagers of Cherli
were killed in cold blood and buried while on their way to the forest.
The Hitvada newspaper, September 6, 2005 quotes the police saying
that 10 armed Maoists were killed by the security forces in Operation
Green Hunt.” An All India Team of Womens Organizations which visited
Dantwada  district    between  30th  September  to  2nd  October  2006
reports in their press release:

“During our investigation we came across a number of incidents
of  unreported  deaths. An  elderly  widow  at  the  Baangapal  camp
described how her eldest son had been abducted by the police from
the Geedam Bazaar and murdered  in the Bodili Thana, she was not
shown the body. An adivasi youth working with a voluntary organisation
22

government wholly responsible for the incident at Errabore.”

 ( Haribhoomi, 19 July 2006)

In an unfortunate incident 14 traders and tribals were killed in a
land mine blast by the people’s militia. A police party had been using
the targetted jeep and on the journey back they forcibly took the vehicle
of the traders and put these traders on the jeep on which they had
come. This had led to a serious mistake on the part of the party.

After this incident, when the Home Minister Ramvichar Netam and
DGP  Rathore  visited  the  site,  the  local  people  gheraoed  them  and
forced them to come out with a statement that, in future, police parties
would not be allowed to forcibly use private vehicles.
Recruiting mercenaries called SPOs

The latest strategy of the Chhattisgarh Government is to recruit
young adivasi boys and girls as SPOs (Special Police Officers) at a
pittance of a wage and with vague and remote promises of a regular
job. Being neither accounted for nor accountable, the SPOs continue
to be referred to as adivasis/ villagers/ civilians when attacked by the
militia and the masses, while they actually act as official spies and
hatchet men, doing the dirty work of the Salwa Judum and the   para-
military.

The manner in which the government is attempting to consolidate
a division in the adivasi community is described in the Women’s Team
report:

“A large number of young girls, many of whom do not appear to
be 18, have been recruited as SPOs. At Bangapal, several of the women
SPOs were wearing skirts and blouses off duty ..... Our fear is that the
government  is  making  widespread  use  of  child  soldiers  ......Our
suspicion is also that the meagre Rs. 1500/-   paid to the SPOs is the
only economic security that many families in  the camps have. In Karkeli
village an adivasi woman confirmed that these women SPOs are not
allowed to leave the thana premises except for meals, they stay even
during the nights. An anganwadi worker at Dornapal on condition of
anonymity admitted that there were cases of prostitution in the camp,
and it  appears that at least 50 cases of termination of pregnancy of
women SPOs had been reported at Bijapur.

27

of the adivasis as human shield became inescapable.

  A  CRPF  official  warns  on  the  South  Asian  Defence  and
Intelligence website,  “We only know that such attacks will happen in
the  future  as  well.  What  we  can  confidently  say  is  that  as  long  as
Salwa Judum activists are present, these camps will be targeted”. He
added that the attack on the Salwa Judum camp (Errabore) was one
of  the  best-planned  attacks  in  Chhattisgarh  as  over  1,000  Maoists
had collectively attacked the camp.

The  daily  Haribhoomi  has  described,  that  after  the  incident,
“...Voices  cursing the Salwa Judum campaign were also seen to be
getting louder. In the camp the villagers were repeatedly cursing Salwa
Judum. They were saying that when the Government and Salwa Judum
did not have solid arrangements for their security, then why were they
pushed  to  the  front  to  die?……The  absolute  inaction  of  the  police
despite being only 50 metres away was inexplicable for them.”

Home-minister Netam, DGP Rathore and Mahendra Karma faced

the wrath of tribals kept in the camps as captives.

“Shri Karma who reached the relief camp after the incident had
to face the strong resentment of the adivasis. To Shri Karma, who was
trying to cover the dead bodies with the burial cloth, the adivasis said
you can leave this work to us, you should only look at the corpses.
Looking to the anger of the adivasis, Shri Karma had to take refuge in
the nearby thana.” (Dainik Bhaskar, 18 July 2006)

“The  fury  of  the  villagers  broke  out  against  the  DGP  after  the
Errabore  Naxalite  attack...When  DGP  Rathore  was  counseling  the
Salwa Judum supporters and villagers in the Konta base camp, some
villagers  climbed  up  on  the  stage  and  started  shoving  and  pushing
him. Seeing the situation getting aggravated, the DGP and local Salwa
Judum activists had to leave the stage and run away.”

Navbharat, 20 July 2006

“ Villagers vent rage at the Home Minister :- The local villagers
vented their rage against the Home Minister of the State Ram Vichar
Netam and the Minister in charge of Dantewada Kedar Kashyap, who
had gone on behalf of the government to wipe the tears of the victims
after  the  Naxalite  incident  at  Errabore.  The  villagers  held  the
26

has  seen  two  women  who  were  shot  dead  by  the  Naga  Batallion.
Several persons confirmed that three adivasi villagers harvesting grain
had been shot dead and their bodies had been buried by the police
near  the  Geedam  thana. All  these  persons  requested  anonymity.
....Young SPOs bragged to us about their capacities to kill and murder
and to capture women “Naxalites” alive, and were hoping to be rewarded
with a promotion to the regular police force.”

Independent Citizens’ Initiative team also mentions the following

among other incidents in its report:

“ We spoke to one Salwa Judum activist from Dubbatota village
who admitted to personally burning houses in Arlampalli and Palemadgu
villages.

We  were  also  told  by  Dornapal  and  Konta  camp  inmates  of  a
number  of  burnings  by  the  Salwa  Judum  and  security  forces  in
Gaganpalli, Asirguda, Arlampalli,  Regadigatta,  and  Neelamadgu
villages.

Village Arlampalli,  which  falls  on  the  road  from  Dornapal  to
Jagargonda, was repeatedly referred to by camp inmates and by Sukma
residents as a village which has been very badly affected. Out of the
162  houses  in  the  village Arlampalli,  reportedly  all  except  two
or  three  houses  had  been  burnt.  All  the  grain  had  been
destroyed.  The  houses  apparently  smouldered  for  almost  a
month. The villagers are said to be camping in the jungle. One
women  from  Phandiguda  ……  told  us  that  she  had  heard  that
people  had  been  burnt  alive  in  their  houses  in Arlampalli  by
the Naga battalion and the Salwa Judum. ……… We  personally
met people from Pottenar village at Jangla  relief camp whose houses
had been burnt by the Salwa Judum. 90 families from Pottenar have
been forced to flee the villages.”

These reports also describe the fate of those who attempted to

resist joining the Salwa Judum or shifting to the camps:

“A  25  year  old  Muria  prisoner,  Dabba  Boomaiah,  from  village
Bamanpur near Bhopalpattanam, said he was working as a labourer
on a lift irrigation project, when some Boarder Roads men asked him
the way to Bhopalpattanam police station. He escorted them and the
23

police started quizzing him about Naxalite presence in his village. Then
they asked him to join Salwa Judum. When he said he couldn’t as he
had  a  wife,  two  small  kids  and  a  widowed  mother  to  support,  they
arrested him.”

(An account of the violence perpetrated on women in the course

of Salwa Judum is described separately in Chapter Six.)
The Salwa Judum camps are in reality prisons.

The conditions of the adivasi people in the so-called Salwa Judum
relief camps, which are more like concentration camps for refugees, is
also described in the Womens’ Team report:

“  ...Thousands  of  villagers  who  are  in  the  camps  have  largely
abandoned their homes, hearths, and fields. They have lost their entire
livestock (cattle, pigs and hens etc.), stocks of grain and forest produce.
No employment is being provided to them by the government and they
are dependent on occassional employment in the surrounding villages
at the rate of Rs. 20/- per day. From these uncertain earnings they
can  purchase  a  mere  2  paili(less  than  5  kg)  of  rice  per  week  per
family  from  the  PDS  supplies..... Almost  all  children  we  saw  at  the
Bangapal and Dornapal camps had typically distended bellies. Parents
at Bangapal camp had sent their children of school going age to live in
an ashram school several villages away, where they were provided
with a mid day meal, often their only meal in the day... In the large
Dornapal camp the UNICEF had already identified nearly a hundred
children as suffering from Grade 4 malnutrition.

.... Many women stated that they wanted to return to their villages
...  Some  villagers  of  Belnar  and  Munder  have  run  away  from  the
Bangapal camp and ever since the SPOs (Special Police Officers - an
adhoc  recruitment  of  local  youth)  are  guarding  the  camp...  Several
camps  on  the  Nelasnaar-Bedre  road  are  now  empty.  For  instance
villagers of Karkeli admitted that SPOs of their village went several
times    to  forcibly  bring  other  villagers  to  the  Karkeli  camp  but  they
have run away each time and now the camp is empty“

The cover story of ‘Down to Earth’October 31, 2006 records similar

findings:

24

“Relief  supplies  have  been  slow  to  reach  since  the  state  was
struggling to cope with other, worse affected regions in Dantewada
and Bastar. In the meantime, the administration has sent instructions
that weekly food supplies for children be halved at all camps. None of
the SPOs have been paid since February, when the camp came into
being....says Ramlal Malkam, the local school principal, who’s in charge
of keeping a record of camp facilities , “The district collector assured
us that salaries will be paid, but there is no sign of it yet. It’s not good
for  the  morale  of  the  people.”  The  same  article  quotes  an  adivasi
resident of a camp: “Mandvi Bhima, a refugee at the Dornapal relief
camp, about 30 km south of Errabore, sums up the problem: We were
suffering there, but we are suffering here also. To live on your land
and farm is one thing, and its another to live here almost like prisoner.”
Using adivasis as a human shield.
Condemned by even those who do not support Maoists.
Here we reproduce a fair amount of factual material brought out
by the media and public figures who are known to have no sympathy
with the Maoist cause, in fact many of them are known to be hostile
towards it.

After a fact finding mission of the CPI(M) in April, 2006 Sanjay
Parate  a  member  of  its  state  secretariat,  has  alleged  that  “the
government is utilizing the Salwa Judum activists as political goons
and  most  of  the  Salwa  Judum  camps  in  south-west  Bastar  are
established near the police-stations so that these can serve as a shield
at the time of attacks by the naxalites.”

The ex-Central Minister and senior adivasi leader of the BJP -
Arvind Netam has objected to the use of adivasis like a shield in the
Naxalite eradication campaign. Mr. Netam said in a statement to the
Hindi daily Haribhoomi on 19th July 2006 that, “Instead of waging a
do-or-die battle with the Naxalites, the police is pushing the adivasis
to the fore. .... From the kind of incidents that are happening, it does
not seem that there is any value of the life of the adivasis.”

When  about  one  thousand  adivasis  led  by  the  PLGA  attacked
the CRPF camp, police post and the SPO’s at Errabore Salwa Judum
camp and liberated hundreds of adivasi people, the fact of utilization
25

demanding back their land. The govt resorted to brutal police firing on
January 2, 2005 killing 12 adivasis. A policeman was killed by the tribals
in retaliation.

Most  of  the  agitationists  were  shot  while  retreating  or  at  point
blank range. A 28 year old adivasi woman Jinga Jarka was also killed
while  retreating.  None  of  the  killer  policemen  have  been
chargesheeted. On the other hand, fabricated cases including murder
have been instituted against many of the activists of the movement.
But the agitationists are continuing their road-block movement since .
Most of the metallurgical plants coming up in this region are hi-tech
export  oriented  enterprises,  with  minimum  scope  of  employment
generation for the local unemployed youth.

The tribals of Kashipur block in Raigarha district are carrying out
and agitation against their displacement as Utkal Alumina,  subsidiary
of the Canadian MNC Alcan wants to acquire vast tracts of land and
bauxite  bearing  hills.  On  December  16,  2000  three  adivasis  were
martyred  when  policeresorted  to  brutal  firing.  Inspite  of  severe
repression and the setting up of CRPF posts/ camps in the interior
villages, the tribals have not allowed the company to grab their land
so far.

Similarly, in the Lanjhigarh block of Kalahandi district, the tribal
people are fighting against a proposed bauxite mining project by the
London based Vedanta company (earlier called Sterlite). When these
tribals  first  took  out  a  protest  rally  in  Lanjhigarh,  they  were  brutally
attacked by a gang of company goons. They were chased for nearly
4-5 kilometers away from the town. Since then, these tribals take out
their procession carrying their traditional weapons such as bows-arrows
and axes etc. and are determinedly facing the goons of the money-
bags, in or out of uniform. Though the mining has been stopped at
present, the govt. and the company are exerting tremendous pressure
to displace these tribals.
The Koel Karo Anti-Dam Movement in Jharkhand

Bela Bhatia, a researcher of social movements writes:
“A FADED green flag flies atop the Shaheed Smarak (martyr’s
column) atTapkara village in Ranchi district of Jharkhand State. The
48

Cement Factory of Birla unionized by the Chhattisgarh Mukti Morcha
went on a strike on 24th June 2006 protesting against the CSPS Act.
On  1st  May  a  bandh  was  held  all  over  Dandakaranya  against  this
black law.

Timely  attacks  on  the  ringleaders  of  Salwa  Judum  has  nipped

this bloody operation in the bud in other areas.

The efforts of the Chhattisgarh government to replicate the Salwa

Judum in  other areas has been determinedly fought back.

Marshal Bada was a potential leader for such a vigilante gang in
the Sarguja region. This feudal bloodsucker had been grabbing the
lands  of  poor  Pahadi  Korba  adivasis  and  in  fact  according  to  a
statement made to the daily Haribhoomi dated 7th February 2006 by
his son Ashok, he had been forced to return these lands back in 2004
“out of fear of Naxalite threats”. With the backing of the police, Marshal
Bada had been gathering adivasis in the name of sports events with a
view to organize Salwa Judum. He was annihilated in a daring ambush
by the PLGA and militia in Tendupara, Thana Batauli on 6 February
2006.

Similarly the present Home Minister Ram Vichar Netam, a resident
of  Sanawal,  district  Sarguja,  was  attempting  to  organize  the  feudal
dalals to unleash Salwa Judum in his area. In Jajawal, a fraud was
played  on  the  adivasis  who  were  called  to  attend  a  meeting  in  the
name  of  airing  their  grievances  regarding  development  works,  and
later Salwa Judum was announced from the same platform. But when
the party carried out intensive propaganda among the people, they
expressed  their  refusal  to  act  as  spies  and  goons  on  behalf  of  the
State. Though  the  State  has  mounted  brutal  repression  under  the
notorious SP Kalluri to murder many revolutionaries, it has not been
able to start Salwa Judum in this area. And even now, the Home Minister
fears to visit his village without massive security  arrangements.

In Chhuria and Khairagarh blocks of Rajnandgaon district, where
funds  for  Salwa  Judum  were  allotted  to  various  police  thanas,  the
lumpen dalals who were attempting to start this operation like Imran
Memon and Sameer Jha were wiped out by the peoples’ militias, thus
nipping this effort in the bud.

33

CHAPTER  TWO
The  Class  basis

Concrete role of Feudals,

CBB and Imperialists

Local  Feudal  elements  find  SJ  an  opportunity  to  regain  their

traditional authority with a vengeance

An ex-Secretary of the Government E.A.S. Sharma has admitted:
“For  decades,  unethical  land-grabbers,  wily  traders,  and
exploitative contractors, all non-tribals, have dominated the lives of
the Adivasis in this area, undeterred. The National Mineral Development
Corporation (NMDC) has a long presence in Dantewada but it is the
non-tribals that have benefited from it. The evolution of Salwa Judum
makes  an  interesting  case  study.  During  the  last  two  decades,  the
Maoists gained a mass base among the Adivasis by taking up
cudgels on their behalf against corrupt government functionaries,
exploitative  traders, and moneylenders. “

So,  it  is  important  to  have  a  clear  understanding  as  to  the
character of the elements from the local population who are actively
conniving  with  the  authority  to  carry  out  the  bloody  Salwa  Judum
operation.

CBI had filed a criminal case against Mahendra Karma for
defrauding  5  poor  adivasis  by  grabing  Rs.  16  lakhs  out  of  Rs.
17.5 lakhs, in collusion with Gupta, Surana, Awasthi.

Mahendra Karma is one of the important figures in the mafia which
has been sucking the blood of local adivasis. Most of the mafia gang
are outsiders and Mahendra Karma is the tribal face to cover up their
corrupt deeds. Their character became public in what is known as the
Maalik Makbuja scam. In this case Mahendra Karma, along with traders
and  contractors  from  outside  such  as  Suresh  Chandra  Surana,
Srinivasan Awasthi, Brij Mohan Gupta and others, was found to be
guilty of cheating the poor tribals and the government on the basis of
forged and fabricated documents.

34

leading to the SEZs becoming real estate speculation centres.

The recent events in Dadri (Ghaziabad) U.P., where thousands
of  acres  of  fertile  agricultural  land  are  being  forcibly  acquired  for
Reliance far in excess of  requirement and at minimal prices despite
widespread protests of the farmers made headlines. Most shocking
was the role of the judiciary as brought out in a report of the joint fact-
finding team of the National Alliance of Peoples Movements and the
PUCL. According to this report, in order to prevent a  demonstration
by VP Singh, the Chief Judge of the Lucknow Bench of the High Court
entertained a petition by Reliance after office hours on 7th July, 2006,
whereas the jurisdiction lies with the Allahabad Bench. This petition
was  heard by a Division Bench at 7 pm at their residence, where the
son of the Chief Judgerepresented Reliance and the advocates of the
Mulayam Singh government co-operated by appearing. An injunction
order  was  passed  and  armed  with  this  the  police  indulged  in
indiscriminate rampage and loot on the agitating peasants the following
morning.

Even  the  Union  Rural  Development  Minister  and  RJD  leader
Raghuvansh Prasad Singh terms the promotion of SEZs a land scam,
a ploy to hand over huge tracts of agricultural land to corporate bigwigs.
If this is the statement of a Union  Minister, who is running the country?
Is it not an admission of their puppet  status?

Former  Prime  Minister  V.P.  Singh  says  that  the  government  is
acting as the muscle man of corporate powers to usurp the land of the
farmers . He has been quoted stating that it would create massive
social  unrest,  which  may  even  take  form  of  armed  struggle.
Displacement on a hitherto unimaginable scale
Facilitated by brutal state repression
Kalinga Nagar, Kashipur, Lanjhigarh in Orissa

In the Kalinga Nagar area, the land of the adivasis was acquired
in the early 1990’s by the Industrial Development Corporation of Orissa
(IDCO) for Rs. 35,000 per acre and sold to Tisco (Tata Iron and Steel
Company) for Rs.3.5 lakh per acre. When no plant came up on their
land  even  after  one  decade,  the  adivasis  started  an  agitation

47

individual,i.e. - Ex. C.M. O P Choutala = Rs. 1400 crores!
The  peasants  of  Haryana  waged  a  struggle  in  2001  against
increased electricity bills under the LPG policies. This struggle was
led by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Haryana. A militant road-block
agitation took place in Kandela in district Jind. Peasants also erected
road-blocks  in  several  other  places  in  the  state.  The  peasants  had
even taken a police officer hostage for a short while. The Om Prakash
Chautala government resorted to police firing at four places to disperse
the agitationists. Nine peasants were killed in these incidents but the
road-block agitation continued, defying the worst kind of repression.
Peasant leaders were put into jail for long periods under false charges
including the charges of sedition.

Consequently, the Chautala government received a drubbing at
the polls. The new government had to waive the pending electricity
bills of the peasants totalling 1600 crores. In recent CBI raids the then
Chief Minister Choutala was found to have a whopping 1400 crores of
unaccounted money. These two sides of the same coin give complete
picture of the present state machinery.

However the present Hooda government of Haryana is not far
behind and is now acting as land broker for the likes of Ambani who
are trying to grab vast stretches of land in Haryana in the name of
SEZs.
The judiciary in UP vamps to facilitate Reliance SEZ.

Under  the  directions  of  the  US-India  CEO  Forum,  the  Indian
government  is  virtually  carving  out  enclaves  in  the  country,  the  so-
called Special Economic Zones, where neither Indian laws nor taxes
would  be  applicable.  The  Haryana  Govt.  is  giving  25,000  hectares
and U.P. 30,000 hectares to Reliance.Two SEZs of 14,000 and 7,500
hectares  are  planned  for  the  outskirts  of  Mumbai.The  West  Bengal
government has also joined this bandwagon with SEZs at Haldia and
Kulpi. Already about 150 SEZs have been approved by the Central
Govt, where it is expected that about 33% of industry would shift. The
expected loss in income tax, excise and customs duties (in other words
the subsidies to industry) is a massive Rs 90,000 crores. No labour
laws  will  apply.  Only  35%  of  the  land  has  to  be  used  for  factories,
46

An extract from a report submitted by the Lokayukta Committee
set up on the directions of the Supreme Court on 5/3/97 shows that
Mahendra Karma s/o Boda Karma r/o Pharsapal defrauded a number
of poor adivasis namely Linga s/o Pandru, Smt.Bodo w/o Pandru, Paiku
s/o Mara, Kuma s/o Mara and Rupa s/o Soma, all caste Gonds and r/
o Kasoli to the extent that about 17.5 lakh rupees were due to them
but they were paid only 1.5 lakh rupees and the remaining 16 lakhs
were grabbed by Mahendra Karma. So what is the real characterization
of  Mahendra  Karma:  a  leader  of  the  adivasis  or  a  blood  sucker
of  the  adivasis?

The CBI had then filed an FIR on 8.12.98 which stated that: “The
facts  contained  in  the  writ  petition,  report  of  Lok Ayukta  and  its
connected papers, prima facie show that the above named officials of
Govt. of Madhya Pradesh and land owners namely Mahendra Karma,
Rajaram  Todem,  Suresh  Chand  Surana,  Srinivasan Awasthi,  Brij
Mohan Gupta and others were party to a criminal  conspiracy during
1992-96 to cause wrongful gain to the land owners in the matter of
felling  trees.  It  is  alleged  that  the  accused  public  servants  abused
their respective official positions and bestowed undue favours to the
said land owners and others and illegally accorded permission in their
favour and in utter disregard of the provisions of the MP Protection of
Aboriginal  Tribes  (  Interest  in  Trees  )  Rules  and  Madhya  Pradesh
Land Revenue Code 1959.”

No further action has been taken on this FIR. True to their class
character, Lokayukta, Supreme Court and CBI failed to bring to
book these blood suckers of the poor adivasis. These instances
are only a tip of the iceberg of such class based exploitation of the
tribals of Bastar and also of the toiling masses of the country.

 When in 1998 there was a movement in Bastar, led by Arvind
Netam, for  provision of more autonomy and for the implementation of
Schedule VI, , Mahendra Karma openly stood for the outsider exploiter
class and his gang even resorted to physical attacks on Arvind Netam
to coerce him into silence.

Apart  from  Karma,  other  prominent  leaders  of  Salwa  Judum  -
Rambhuvan Kushwaha and Ajay Singh are non-tribal immigrants from
UP, who have worked as contractors and traders. They have many
35

criminal cases pending against them. Another leader of Salwa Judum
- Soyam Mooka of Konta, a tribal, is son of an ex-MLA. Madhukar Rao
of Kutru, is a non tribal and is a school teacher who never attends
school. Maureen Nandini confirms ( ‘Down to Earth’ October 31, 2006):
“Most of the Salwa Judum leaders Down to Earth met at Errabore and
Dornapal relief camps were either non-tribal or relatively wealthy tribals.
They  were  school  teachers,  village  heads,  traders  and  contractors,
people who could be labelled the ‘local elite’, those who suffered most
at the hands of the Maoists.”

 Under the leadership of the Maoists, the adivasis of Bastar had
acquired organizational strength to curb the feudal exploitation by the
likes of Karma, Kushwaha etc. In July 2006, Director General of Police
Rathore  admitted  that,  “Presently  there  are  around  4000  Naxalites
and  between  45  to  50  thousand  Sangham  members  in  Bastar.”
Mahendra  Karma  had  also  admitted  to  the  Independent  Citizens’
Initiative team that the Maoists had been organizing in Bastar for two
decades and the shape of their Janatana Sarkar had been fully formed.
So when the state started its fresh onslaught on the revolutionary
peoples  struggle,  these  feudal  elements  saw  an  opportunity  to  re-
establish their lost authority with vengeance behind the brutal armed
mught of the state.

The  interest  of  the  Comprador  Bureaucrat  Capitalists  and
their Imperialist masters of monopolizing the natural resources
of  the  region,  throttles  the  development  aspirations  of  the
whole  people  of  Bastar  and  Chhattisgarh,  including  the
indigenous  small  industry.

The Bailadilla mines of Bastar owned by the NMDC have been
supplying  iron-ore  to  Japan  dirt  cheap.  On  the  other  hand,  a  large
number of small steel plants in Chhattisgarh don’t get their requirement
of  ore  from  these  mines.  Rather,  they  have  to  purchase  ore  from
outside,  costing  anywhere  from  ten  to  twenty  times  the  cost  of  ore
from NMDC.

Essar  group,  a  big  comprador  house  of  our  country  owned  by
Ruia  brothers,  has  constructed  a  267  kilometre  long  pipe-line  from
Bailadila to Vishakhapatnam to make this supply of ore to Japan even
cheaper.
36

and “stealing of jetropha germplasm” .
Peasants in Ghadsana, Rajasthan face bullets for water
while CM Vasundhara Raje Scindia walks the ramp in a
fashion show.

Farmers in the district of Sriganganagar, Rajasthan have been
agitating since August-September 2006. At the very initial stage, the
government arrested the leaders of the movement. But the peasants
have forged a unity with the workers and traders of the region and are
carrying out a militant mass movement under the banner of the ‘Kisan-
Vyapari-Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti.’

The  peasants  are  demanding  water  for  irrigation  as  per  the
agreement signed earlier by the government, and also the release of
their leaders. But instead of fulfilling these very just demands of the
farmers,  the  Vasundhara  Raje  government  has  resorted  to  brutal
repression.  On  several  ocassions  the  army  has  been  pressed  into
service, and while carrying out raids in the villages, armed forces had
violent clashes with villagers, particularly women. Many women are
reported to have been injured in these police operations. Curfew has
been imposed in most of the towns of the district, several times over
between  September and November 2006. There have been brutal
lathicharges. The administration has ordered all licensed guns to be
deposited.

”We are not cowards. We will not commit suicide. We will fight the
government even if they shoot us or hang us. Water is our right. We
will fight for our share of water,” said a farmer.

Two years ago in 2004, the militant farmers struggle had gone
on  for  three  months.  On  that  occassion  too,  the  government  had
resorted to brutal police repression in which eight farmers had been
killed.  In  fact,  the  main  demand  of  the  farmers  this  year  was  to
implement the settlement which the government had signed in 2004
for provision of water .
Electricity dues of 3-4 lakh peasants of Haryana waived
after  the  martyrdom  of  nine  peasants:  =  Rs.  1600
croresDisproportionate  assets  uncovered  of  one
45

Rs. 3000 per quintal. And the support price he gets is only Rs. 1700
per  quintal.  Before  the  elections,  the  Congress  had  promised
to increase the support price by Rs. 500 from the existing Rs.
2200  to  Rs.  2700  per  quintal.  But  after  coming  to  power,  it
decreased  the  support  price  by  Rs.  500  from  Rs.  2200  to  Rs.
1700! This is a glaring example of how, in the name of free trade and
globalization, an imperialist power like the U.S. is engaged in plunder
and devastation of our economy.

Food rights of the poor through the Public Distribution System
are under attack. India has created a network of 5,00,000 fair price
shops to provide affordable food. However this food security and food
sovereignty network is being deliberately dismantled. In 2001 - 2002,
wheat production was 69.8 million tonnes and procurement for food
distribution  was  20  million  tonnes.  In  2006,  inspite  of  production
increasing to 71.5 million tonnes, procurement has dropped to 9 million
tonnes.

There are instances to show that after exporting wheat at $90
per ton, our government has imported wheat of very bad quality at the
rate of $190 in the same year. In 2001, when the cost of wheat for the
Food Corporation of India (FCI) was Rs. 8300 per ton and the market
price was Rs. 7000 per ton, Cargill bought wheat from FCI at Rs. 4200
per tonne! Subsidies are thus fattening Cargill’s profits while the poor
starve. Even in 2005, the FCI has sold wheat to private corporations
in spite of dwindling stocks. The Government has subsidized wheat
exports,  which  have  registered  a  five  fold  increase  between  2000-
2005.

Thus global corporations export Indian wheat subsidized by India’s
tax payers and import U.S. and Australian wheat, subsidized by U.S.
and Australian    taxpayers  and  make  super  profits  both  ways,  while
wheat producers and the poor suffer.

The recently formed US-India CEO Forum co-chaired by Ratan
Tata also includes Warren Stanley of Cargill Incorporated. So one can
forecast  an  intensification  of  this  kind  of  loot.  In  Chhattisgarh  giant
agricorporations - Monsanto, Syngenta and D1 are implicated in various
bio-diversity related crimes, like - illegal trials of GM crops, piracy of
the priceless collection of thousands of varieties of indigenous rice,
44

In  2005  the  Chhattisgarh  government  signed  memoranda  of
understanding  with  the  Tata  group  to  set  up  a  steel  plant  at
Lohandiguda  in  Jagdalpur  district,  and  with  Essar  to  set  up  a  steel
plant at Bhansi in Dantewada district of Bastar. Despite considerable
uproar in the Legislative Assembly these MOUs were not made public
till a year later. The language of these MOUs is as if the government
has signed a blank cheque giving these rich corporates all rights over
land, forests, water and mineral resources of Bastar and Chhattisgarh.
When  in  the  gram  sabha  meetings  organized  by  the  district
administration, the local adivasi people refused to accept the officials
‘advice’  to  agree  to  land  acquisition,  one  Vijay Tiwari,  an  outsider
exploiter  and  RSS  functionary  openly  declares  that  the  “anti-
development” elements who are not cooperating are being identified
and will be dealt with accordingly. Many of the workers of the Adivasi
Mahasabha and CPI who are opposing forcible land acquisitions in
both  the  Bhansi  and  the  Lohandiguda  regions  have  been  arrested
and put behind the bars.

What is the scene when a Gram Sabha is organized under the
PESA on the question of land acquisition for the Essar plant? An article
in ‘Down to Earth’ describes this graphically:

“Dhurli village, Dantewada district, August 30, 11.30 am: Armed
police in riot gear stand in clusters around the walled compound where
people of this quiet  picturesque village are to gather for a gram sabha
hearing.They are to decide today whether they want Essar steel to
set up a 3.2 million tonne plant on their land for Rs. 7000 crore. The
single  lane  highway  connecting  this  village,  lying  halfway  between
Dantewada town and the Bailadila iron ore mines, is lined with cars
and jeeps of district administrators, Essar’s top brass, Mahendra Karma
and BJP public engineering and health minister Kedar Kashyap, and
their  respective  entourages.  They  are  all  gathered  inside  the
compound.

This is the second hearing called to discuss the issue. An earlier
one, called on June 10, was cancelled because villagers refused to
turn up. Police officials say there’s a possibility of Naxalite attack today,
since  the  rebels  are  anti-development.  Essar  officials  say  “outside
elements”  were  provoking  the  villagers  to  reject  the  steel  plant,  so
37

they  needed  extra  security.  Pisda,  Dantewada’s  Collector,  says
villagers  were  “fighting  among  themselves”....  and  they  wanted  the
people to speak peacefully.

Gram Sabhas, as per law, shouldn’t be attended by outsiders.
Hence,  gun-toting  policemen  keep  media  personnel  -  ‘outsiders’
beyond the walls, while within the walls Essar officials - ‘insiders’ in
Dantewada administration‘s  lingo - hobnob with state leaders...

Section  144  of  the  Criminal  Procedure  Code,  banning  the
gathering  of  five  or  more  persons,  had  been  imposed  on  Dhurli  on
August 26th. Police had picked up eight villagers that day, on charges
that they had roughed up the Sarpanch, Bhagat Kunjam...

Kunjam doesn’t live in the village anymore. The villagers have
labelled him ‘Essar ka dalal’ (Essar’s agent) and are baying for his
blood. For a while he was staying in Dantewada town’s only hotel, but
has since relocated to some unknown address. Villagers say the eight
people arrested had been the most vocal about not wanting the plant.
Deva Tellam,  one  of  the  four  people  who  were  released,  says  the
police told them, if they agreed to give up their land they would be
released.

Villagers  begin  trickling  in  around  noon.  H.S.Sethi,  Essar’s
Chhattisgarh director, laughs. ”Oh, the meeting won’t start till about
4pm,”  he  says.  “These  people  take  their  time.  They  will  eat  and
drink,....and then they will come... They don’t follow our schedule”

The compound fills up by around 1.30 pm, however. But there’s
no meeting. No discussion. Villagers are taken in turns to a room where
officials  tell  them  they  have  to  sign  on  a  piece  of  paper  indicating
whether they are for or against the project. Confused, unable to read
what is on the paper, about 30 give thumb impressions. By then, the
rest of the villagers in the compound get restive.  Why aren’t we being
allowed to discuss the issue, they ask, creating a  commotion. Pisda
tells them to “either sign or get out”. Angry villagers leave....

At Dantewada town the next day, Karma has his own take on the
Essar proposal. “Such big decisions aren’t taken asking the common
people. No gram sabha can take a decision against the villagers’ own
development.”
38

CHAPTER  THREE
LPG  Onslaught

No less than a war against

the  whole  people

Conditions of the Peasantry -
Suicides and Indebtedness are rampant
The poor starve for lack of foodgrains.

In the last ten years, more than one lakh peasants have committed
suicide. But for the ruling classes, the lives of ordinary Indians have
no value. They are happy in pocketing their share of dalali in selling
the  resources  of  our  beloved  country  to  their  masters. A  cursory
investigation into the spate of suicides by Vidarbh peasants in the last
few months lays bare the operation of devastating imperialist loot.

Suicide deaths in Vidarbha since 2001 ---------------2279
Suicide deaths in the past one year ------------------- 728
The U.S. provides huge subsidies to its cotton growers. Here the
cost of production of one quintal of cotton lint is $ 170 (Rs. 7990), the
selling price is $118 (Rs. 5546) and the subsidy provided to the cotton
grower is $ 100 i.e. about Rs. 4500. After getting such hefty subsidies
the U.S. cotton growers have flooded the Indian market with their cheap
cotton.

The U.S. has been constantly pressurizing our rulers to remove
all kinds of subsidies to farmers and at the same time reduce the import
tariff. Under the directions of the imperialist masters, our rulers have
fixed this tariff at only 10%.

 As a result, between 1997 and 2003, we have imported 110 lakh
bales of cotton, which is more than the total volume imported since
‘Independence’.

In Vidarbha, the cost of production for a cotton farmer is about
43

discontent and is being exploited by the Naxalites. Government has to
take steps to solve this because industry cannot. You are talking of
about $30bn of foreign investment here - it is a lot of money,” said
Mr Dutta. ...(May 9, 2006)

And again on August 2, 2006 Guardian observes : “A battalion of
Indian  paramilitary  forces  has  backed  this  militia,  known  as  Salva
Judum (Peace March), against the Naxalites, turning the forest into a
battlefield.  Entire  villages  have  been  emptied  as  tribal  communities
flee from the burnings, lootings and killings. The civil conflict has left
more than 50,000 people camping under tarpaulin sheets without work
or food along the roadsides of southern Chhattisgarh.

Campaigners  say  that  the  reason  why  the  government  has
opened a ‘new front’ in this’ battle’ lies beneath Chhattisgarh’s fertile
soil, which contains some of the country’s richest reserves of iron ore,
coal,  limestone  and  bauxite.  Above  live  some  of  India’s  most
impoverished people: semi-literate tribes who exist in near destitution.
India’s biggest companies have moved stealthily into the forest
areas,  buying  up  land  and  acquiring  the  rights  to  extract  the
buried wealth. Last year the Chhattisgarh government signed deals
worth 130bn Indian rupees (£1.6bn) with industrial companies for steel
mills and power stations.

When the Guardian visited Naxalite guerrillas deep in the forests
of  central  India  earlier  this  year,  Gopanna  Markam,  a  company
commander of the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army, stressed that
the “exploitation” needed to be stopped. “The government is bent upon
taking  out  all  the  resources  from  this  area  and  leaving  the  people
nothing.

This is not a threat to take lightly. Naxalite bandhs or shutdowns
in Jharkhand state, with rich deposits of iron ore and dolomite, have
cost local steelmakers 60 days of lost work a year. Armed rebels have
carried  out  several  attacks  in  southern  Chhattisgarh  on  the  state-
owned National Mineral  Development Corporation iron-ore mine.”

So, while the Indian ruling classes try to cover-up the real agenda,
international media of the finance capital states the main contradiction
quite frankly:

Attempt of imperialist loot vs. People’s resistance led by the party.

42

At the district office, Pisda said: “The agenda was one point, yes
or no. There have been discussions about this from before, so there
was no need for further discussion at the Gram Sabha.”

September 9: The story is replayed. Again Section 144 is imposed
on the whole region. The area is sealed off this time. Roads are blocked
by Central Industrial Security Force personnel. All the administrators,
Essar officials and MLAs are present again. Few villagers turn up for
the gram sabha, but since this is the second meeting on the subject,
by law no quorum is necessary. The outcome of the meeting is not
made public.

September  13: Two  reports.  One  from  Raipur  by  India Abroad
News Service says ”after months of protests” , villagers of Dhurli and
Bhansi had agreed to give land to Essar...

The second report, in the daily Chhattisgarh says thousands took
out  a  rally  in  Dantewada  against  the  proposed  plant  and  gave  the
Collector  a  note  saying  they  would  not  give  Essar  land.  This  is  an
extract  from  the  report:  “The  villagers  under  the  leadership  of
Dantewada Adivasi Mahasabha and Sangharsh Samiti, Dhurli, said
that  on  September  9,  police  had  forced  them  to  sign  no-objection
letters. Two constables were posted at each house. No outsider was
allowed at the meeting place. People were not allowed to leave their
homes or talk to each other. According to the villagers, at 9 am they
were forced into vehicles, and taken to the meeting. They were taken
to a room in twos, and pistols were placed at their temples to make
them sign”

 Forced by the popular mood and people’s initiative, local BJP
MLA from the Lohandiguda area, Lachhu Ram Kashyap was also active
in some of the protests of the people against the Tata plant . According
to Haribhoomi (Feb. 22, 2006):

“MLA of the ruling party Lachhuram Kashyap said that a wrong
site has been chosen for the the plant. There is an attempt to have a
plant in an area of dense population and double crop. Administrative
officers and the agents of the  company are luring the adivasis to give
up the land. ……Speaking during the thanks-giving resolution on the
Governor’s address, Shri Kashyap alleged that there is an atmosphere

39

of terror because of land acquisition for the Tata plant. “

The BJP high command summoned him to Delhi and reprimanded
him for supporting the aspirations of the people of his constituency.
He was later flown to Australia to facilitate a change of heart! This is
how a journalist of ‘Down to Earth’ (October 31, 2006) reported his
present  situation:

“I had wanted the location to be moved to another spot within the
block where the land is uncultivable”, he says. But Kashyap’s party
made sure he was nowhere near Lohandiguda when the gram sabhas
were held. Kashyap is a subdued man today, aware that his political
career is probably nearing an end. “I won’t contest this decision any
more,”  he  says.  “It’s  our  government,  they  want  it  ...  I  am  just  one
person. Who am I to say or do anything?”

......This correspondent visited Lohandiguda, where villagers
said that people in all 12 villages, other than a small group of villagers,
were against the plant proposal, at least in its current form. .... Villagers
say, during the gram sabha on July 20 the administration trucked in
people from other villages, paid them Rs. 50 each, fed them lunch and
took their thumb impressions. ”

But  the  people  have  clearly  not  given  up.  Here  is  the  latest
situation based on a report in the daily Deshbandhu of November 23,
2006:

“To control those (people) opposing Tata (steel plant) on Monday
(20th November) police had to resort to tear gas. According to reports,
police also resorted to lathi charge. Terrorized by this, the villagers
have locked their houses and fled away to the hills. Most houses of
Sirisguda  have  a  lock  hanging  on  the  door.  The  market  place  has
been converted into a police camp...

Ex-MLA and President of the Adivasi Mahasabha Manish Kunjam
visited the area and said that the issue of Tata Steel had become very
sensitive for the tribal community. Actually the tribals of Lohandiguda
region do not want a steel plant on their land.

He demanded that the 13 point agreement between the district
administration and the people of 10 villages should be implemented.
He warned that the Sirisguda incident can take a serious turn. The
40

police is beating up tribal women and children. If this situation persists,
then it will take little time for the Lohandiguda region to turn into another
Kalinganagar.”

‘’The  Guardian’  has  carried  a  story  “Inside  India’s  hidden
war”  with  the  subtitle:  “Mineral  rights  are  behind  clashes
between  leftwing  guerrillas  and  state-backed  militias”.

Here are some excerpts: “B Muthuraman, Managing Director of
Tata Steel, said: “We are working with the local people. They do want
schools, water, [and] the development that the plant will bring.( Doesn’t
he admit that the governments have not brought school, water etc. in
so many years? )It is some other elements who caused the problems.
...These “other elements” are now at the centre of a corporate debate
over how to exploit resources in the mineral-rich but poverty-stricken
tribal  belt  in  India.  Tata  Steel  would  not  say  who  the  instigators  in
Kalinganagar were, only that they were “extremists”. What happened
in Orissa, say many experts, could easily be replicated across India,
where the same mix of tribal disaffection could bubble up into a series
of peasant uprisings. A bigger danger is, that holding sway over a vast
area of India is an armed group of left-wing guerrillas, referred to as
Naxalites,  who  see  industrialisation  as  an  unwanted  intrusion  and
threaten a violent contest over rural lands.

With  $85bn  (£46bn)  of  investment  slated  for  mineral-rich  India
including proposals from South Korea’s Posco, the FTSE 100 mining
firm Vedanta, which holds its annual meeting in London today, and the
world’s biggest steel company, Mittal Steel - financial analysts have
begun to fret over the implications of trying to build an industry in the
absence of the state. ...

  The  brokers  CLSA  said  in  a  note  last  month:  “Lack  of  policy
initiatives  and  the  inability  to  win  over  the  tribals,  the  largest
stakeholders in the hinterlands where the Maoists hold sway, means
the Naxalite movement is becoming stronger.” ....

Anirudha Dutta, a senior investment analyst with CLSA, said the
problem  was  trying  to  square  industrial  growth  with  decades  of
government  indifference.  “Kalinganagar  was  a  manifestation  of  the
same  problem.  This  economic  insecurity  is  a  serious  source  of

41

do you oppose Pepsi and Coke so much? I replied that the people of
my country oppose them and we have our own soft drinks. Then he
said, “Mr. George Fernandes I am not joking”. I also replied that I am
not joking either. Then that Vice President said, “Allright but I want to
make  it  clear  to  you  that  for  us  Coke  and  Pepsi  are  a  litmus
test,  on  the  basis  of  which  we  decide  whether  or  not  we  give
money to a country. It is pertinent that this Vice President was not an
American. He was working for America. I couldn’t eat the dinner. I believe
that they blackmail us through all these things.” ….

Q. “When iodized salt is made compulsory, the government claims
that  it  is  concerned  about  the  health  of  the  people  and  when  it  is
established through scientific tests that health is harmed by Coke and
Pepsi,  then  the  government  changes  its  stand.  Why  do  the
governments  do  this?  What  has  happened  to  the  character  of  the
Government?”

A. “Bribe. All this happens through bribe and nothing else.
All this is the work of bribes. Bribes have made the state power
characterless. I have written to the Prime Minister about this. We are
going to have a movement on this in some days.” …

Q. “The attitude of the Court also appears rather strange!”
A. “In  our  country  anybody  can  be  bought  up  on  the  basis  of

money. Whether millionaire or billionaire, anybody.”

Thus  Mr.  Fernandes  has  frankly  told  us  how  Pepsi  and  Coke
manage  the  governments  of Atal  Bihari,  Vishvanath  Pratap  Singh,
Manmohan Singh-Ambani Ramdoss, and Budhadev Bhattacharya are
managed, let alone cricket boards. Hunger and disease stalk rural
India.
India ranks 127th in Human Development Report.

The October 2005 editorial of the Analytical Monthly Review paints

a grim picture:

“In the very months when the Sensex in Mumbai Stock Exchange
steadily rose to cross 8,000 in the hinterland of India’s most prosperous
state,  Maharashtra,  2675  children  died  of  malnutrition  within  four
months  from April  to  July.  They  were  concentrated  in  five  tribal
64

flag is changed every year on March 2, one was told, in memory of five
persons killed that day in a police firing at that site in 1946 while they
were demonstrating, along with many thousand Munda Adivasis of the
region, for the formation of a separate Jharkhand State.

On February 2, 2001 in the newly formed Jharkhand, the police
opened fire on an unarmed assembly of around 5,000 Munda Adivasis,
including children, women and men. The dead have been declared
shaheeds  of  the  Koel-Karo  Jan  Sangathan  and  buried  next  to  the
Shaheed Smarak. Thus 1946 and 2001 have become one in Tapkara
chowk.”

In 1984 people under the banner of the Koel-Karo Jan Sangathan
had  erected  a  barricade  first  in  1984  to  prevent  the  National
Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC) and government officials from
going to Lohajimi, where a dam was proposed to be built on the Karo
river. In 1995, when  the government announced its decision to restart
the project, a ‘janata curfew’ was imposed by the Sangathan and more
such barricades were installed on the road leading up to the dam site.
A round-the-clock vigil was kept near the barricades to prevent officials
and the police from entering the area without  permission.

On February 1, a police party broke the barricade without any
provocation. When the villagers protested , they were beaten up badly.
There  was  a  large  gathering  protesting  against  the  incident,  in
response to which indiscriminate brutal firing was resorted to. No action
has been taken against policemen responsible for the murder of the
tribals, while many activists of the movement have been charged under
false and fabricated cases.

The  tribal  people  are  still  holding  out  against  successive
governments of Marandi, Munda and now Koda each having a pro-
corporate  record.
“Essar gets tribal spit on its face”

‘Sebydesiolim’ has posted this report on a website on 9th October,
2006:“EVEN AS RED-CARPET welcome is being extended to corporate
investors  in  Jharkhand,  getting  to  the  ground  is  not  so  easy.  Essar
Steel learnt this lesson recently on September 29 near the Chaibasa
city....when it organized a medical camp in Ulijhari. And, it is here that
49

it got the taste of Adivasi revolt and was forced to beat a hasty retreat.
Tribal chief Antu Hembrom, who was cooperating with the company,
was  caught  and  beaten  up  in  front  of  company  officials  and  the
Jharkhand Police, and then tied and paraded through the city market,
with women spitting into his face. Hembrom was also forced to give a
written  undertaking  that  he  will  not  henceforth  collaborate  with  the
company. A pot was hung around his neck with a poster reading: “I am
a land robber.” A garland of slippers was also presented to Hembrom,
who is also the president of Manki Munda Sangh. He was forced to
walk, carrying the poster and the garland, a distance of 4 km.

Essar  Steel  plans  to  set  up  a  steel  plant  and  make  major
investments in the state. It is among the 44 corporates that signed
memoranda  of  understandings  (MoUs)  with  the  previous  state
government headed by Arjun Munda. ...

The quantum of investments in mining and other industrial plants
are around Rs 66,000 crore. Among the major investors in Jharkhand,
besides Essar Steel, are Tatas, Mittals, Jindals, Dempos and South
African De Beers. Each of these companies is finding it tough getting
hold of suitable land for its project.
A number of officials of these
companies  have  been  prevented  —  sometimes  violently  —  from
conducting surveys, as mostly such lands are inhabited by tribals and
Dalits. ...

Essar Steel organized a medical camp in Ulihatu village, where
the villagers were given ladoos to eat and some tablets to get cure of
the various diseases identified by the doctors at the campsite. Essar
then took signatures of the villagers on a blank paper. Nobody knows
what happened to those blank papers on which the villagers’ signatures
were taken. The company, in a press statement to the Ranchi edition
of The  Telegraph  called  it  a  “confidence-building  exercise”  with  the
villagers whom the company is trying to get rid of.

But ironically it was the company’s confidence that got shattered
when angry villagers refused to eat the ladoos and swallow the tablets.
Essar Steel is seeking land measuring 4,000 acres, which is estimated
to directly displace about 15,000 persons near Chaibasa. .... All these
villages are in West Singhbhum District’s Sadar Prakhand.”

50

beating of drums demonstrates that reservations are no more than a
mirage in the desert of hopelessness. Indeed the Economist has listed
India as one of the 54 “flawed democracies” on the five criteria of free
and  fair  poll,  civil  liberties,  good  governance,  political  participation
and political culture. The Anand Bazaar Patrika while reporting this on
24th November 2006 asks, ”Why this situation of Balmani? Because
she is a woman? Because she is poor? Because she is illiterate? Or
because  she  is  a  rusty  nut-bolt  of  a  broken  down  machine  called
democracy?”

The parliamentary left has nowadays taken to preaching to the
Indian Maoists to emulate the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) and
join  the  “mainstream”  of  the  parliamentary  pigsty.  They  refuse  to
acknowledge that the vibrant mass  movement visible in Nepal today,
demanding the end of U.S.-India propped  monarchy and the formation
of a constituent assembly could only be built up through ten years of
uncomprising  armed  struggle,  and  the  sacrifice  of  10,000  precious
Nepali lives. Which was all along opposed by these parties and the
revisionist CPN (UML) party of Nepal.

In  an  interview  to  the  Sahara  Samay  (2/9/2006)  George
Fernandes, the first to defect to the “Hindutva” side and an ex-Defence
Minister of India who did not demur when he was stripped and searched
on an official visit to the U.S. candidly admits:

“Q. When you were a Minister in the Atal Bihari government the
idea of banning Pepsi and Coke had come up particularly when the
CSE  had  revealed  that  these  products  have  a  hazardous  level  of
pesticide. .... At that time also were there pressures on the government
not to ban these products as in 1977?

A. There must have been pressure. Because these (companies)
are notorious for this. I will give you an example of their pressures. I
was Rail Minister in the Vishvanth Pratap Singh government. In the
tenure  of  the  previous  government  there  had  been  an  international
deal.  The  responsibility  of    completing  this  fell  upon  me.  I  went  to
Washington  in  this  connection.  I  had  to  bring  200  crore  rupees. A
dinner had been organized for me there. There was a Vice President
of the World Bank there and we started talking. This Vice President
was of some Arab country. Even before the dinner he asked me why
63

The recent obscenity and throwing of chairs and tables by the
“Hon’ble” members of Parliament in one of their usual sectional mock
fights stands in stark contrast to the scene of the few minutes in which
the Parliament unanimously passed the increase in allowances and
perks of the members. This has intensified the disgust of the people.
It is pertinent that the Lok Sabha which cost Rs. 100/- per minute in
the year 1951 now costs Rs. 20,000 per minute. Rs. 3.17 lakh is spent
each month on each Member of Parliament. And more and more of
this  revenue  comes,  not  from  taxing  the  corporate  moneybags,  but
directly or indirectly from the poor.

After decades of sitting tight on the seat of power in West Bengal
thanks  to  cadre  (read  muscle)  power  and  exploitation  of  left  liberal
traditions of the Bengali middle class, the CPM still “has no alternative”
than taking ADB loans, privatizing public sector, setting up Tata plants,
okaying  Pepsi  and  Coke,  …Starvation  deaths  in  West  Medinipur,
Purulia, Bankura, Birbhum and in the tea gardens of North Bengal or
the large scale migration of the working class are only symptoms of
the serious socio-economic problems.

The  CPM-isation  of  the  Liberation  group  after  coming  over-
ground,  thereby  swelling  the  ranks  of  the  “honest  but  ineffective
democrats” is evident.

The  periodic  murmurs  of  recognizing  only  national  parties,  or
emulating a two party system like the US shows that curbing even the
limited clout of regional parties in coalition politics is on the agenda.
The demand of statehood of the TRS, for instance, is as elusive as
ever.

The manner in which the people are forced to vote by the Army
and paramilitary in Kashmir is well documented by various journalists
and observers and shows the real nature of elections. In this context
the talk of making voting compulsory, justified by the provision of giving
an  option  of  “none  of  the  above”  is  to  forcibly  legitimize  a  rotten
parliamentary system.

The  incident  of  22nd  November  2006  in  Village  Kodaikulam  in
Kerala where a poor dalit woman Sarpanch - Balmani Biman was forced
to auction her  reserved post for about Rs. 2,16,000 to Karrupaswamy
of the upper caste Thevar community after a public announcement by
62

Peasants & Adivasis are drowned by the Supreme Court.
Fate of much highlighted democratic struggle : NBA

These are excerpts from an article by Arundhati Roy:
“...The  reservoir  of  the  Narmada  Sagar  is  designed  to  be  the
largest in India. In order to irrigate 1,23,000 hectares of land, it will
submerge 91,000 hectares! This includes 41,000 hectares of prime
dry deciduous forest, 249 villages and the town of Harsud. According
to  the  detailed  project  report,  30,000  hectares  of  the  land  in  the
Narmada Sagar command was already irrigated in 1982. Odd math.
Construction of the dam began in 1985. For the first few years, it
proceeded slowly. It ran into trouble with finance and land acquisition.
In 1999, after a fast by activists of the Narmada Bachao Andolan (NBA),
work was suspended altogether.

On  May  16,  2000,  in  keeping  with  the  central  govt.’s  push  to
privatise the power sector and open it to global finance, the government
of Madhya Pradesh signed an MoU with the Government of India to
“affirm  the  joint  commitment  of  the  two  parties  to  the  reform  of  the
power sector in Madhya Pradesh”. The ‘reforms’ involved “rationalising”
power tariffs and slashing cross-subsidies.
same  MoU
promised  central  government  support  for  the  Narmada  Sagar  and
Omkareshwar  dams  by  setting  up  a  joint  venture  with  the  National
Hydro-Electric Power Corporation (NHPC). That contract was signed
on the same day. May 16, 2000. Both agreements will inevitably lead
to the pauperisation and dispossession of people in the state.

The 

... With no NBA to deal with, bolstered by the Supreme Court’s
hostile judgements on the Sardar Sarovar and Tehri dams, the Madhya
Pradesh govt and its partner, the NHPC, have rampaged through the
region with a callousness that would shock even a seasoned cynic.
The  lie  of  rehabilitation  has  been  punctured  once  and  for  all.
Planners who peddle it do so for the most cruel, opportunistic reasons.
It gives them cover. It sounds so reasonable.

In  the  absence  of  organised  resistance,  the  media  in  Madhya
Pradesh has done a magnificent job. ... Newspapers and television
channels  carry  horror  stories  every  day. A  normally  anaesthetised,

51

unblinking public has been roused to anger.

The  next  lethal  blow  is  when  rates  of  compensation  are  fixed.
The fortunate people who actually qualify as project-affected, asked,
quite  reasonably, to be compensated for their land according to the
prevailing land prices in the villages in the command area of the dam.
They received almost exactly half of that. ......As a result, farmers who
had 10 acres of land will barely manage five. Small farmers with a
couple of acres become landless labourers. Rich become poor.
Poor  become  destitute.  It’s  called  Better  Management.

At a meeting in Harsud, desperate people discussed the possibility

of filing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the Supreme Court.

An institution with the idea of Justice. Power, yes. Strategy, maybe.
But  Justice?  Phrases  from  Justices A.  S. Anand  and  B.  N.  Kirpal’s
majority judgement on the Sardar Sarovar flashed through my mind:
-“Public Interest Litigation should not be allowed to degenerate
into  becoming  Publicity  Interest  Litigation  or  Private  Inquisitiveness
Litigation.“

-“Though these villages comprise a significant population of tribals
and  people  of  weaker  sections,  but  majority  will  not  be  a  victim  of
displacement.  Instead,  they  will  gain  from  shifting.  “  -“The
displacement  of  tribals  and  other  persons  would  not  per  se
result  in  the  violation  of  their  fundamental  or  other  rights”.

Thus were the thousands displaced by the Sardar Sarovar Dam

doomed to  destitution.

Then again, on February 15, 2004, in a report that praises the
NHPC  for  “completing  projects  like  the  Narmada  Sagar  within  time
and within budget”, the Economic Times quoted a World Bank official
saying,  “The  NHPC  is  moving  towards  global  corporate
performance standards and is improving its  financial performance.
We have done due diligence on the corporation and are impressed
by the performance.“

Who suffers, who profits?

Whose interest is the country’s interest?

An editorial in the magazine Analytical Monthly Review (Aug. 2005)

52

The most recent products of the legislature - the ‘National Rural
Employment  Guarantee Act’,  which  absorbed  the  energies  of  the
progressive intelligentsia, NGOs, and parliamentary Left, has proved
a  damp  squib  with  restriction  to  a  few  districts,  the  usual  structural
difficulties in implementation, and the acceptance in principle of a wage
less than the minimum wage. Similarly the ineffectivity of the equally
publicised ‘Right to Information Act’, which is sought to be pruned even
before it is implemented, became absolutely clear in Chhattisgarh when
the State Government first refused to place the controversial MOUs
signed with Texas Power Generation, Tata and Essar on the table of
the  House,  and  subsequently  they  were  refused  to  the  Opposition
leaders, even when applied for under the Act. Yet the left parties and
NGOs continue to lobby and campaign for more Acts .....and yet more
Acts!

The  “Left  lobby”  in  Parliament  was  not  able  to  stall  any  major
reforms by their empty threats of withdrawing support. Their timid role
in the Honda Workers movement in Gurgaon, and even in protesting
the brutal murder of three young CITU activists leading an agitation
for minimum wages, whose bodies were thrown in the NHPC dam under
construction  at  Chamba,  Himachal  Pradesh  shows  the  “academic”
nature of their anti-imperialist rhetoric.

The raising of the limits of electoral expenses has reserved the
political arena for only the rich and well connected. Feudal or royal
dynasties,  film  stars,  mafia  dons,  industrialists,  communal  killers  ...
these are the representatives of the Indian people. And horse-trading
and  defection  has  attained  new  heights  as  exposed  in  the  present
crisis of the Arjun Munda government in Jharkhand where MLAs are
being abducted and stashed away in various hill resorts to be conjured
up in the last moment of head counting for forming the government. It
is estimated that more than 100 out of the 574 Members of Parliament
are habitual criminals. Shahabuddin, Narendra Modi, Pappu Yadav,
Subhas  Chakravarti  are  the  most  notorious  but  others  are  not  far
behind. In fact, the statistical decline in voting percentages is being
offset only by the increasing capacities of heavily funded political parties
to distribute goodies and engage film star campaigners in a competition
where political issues hardly figure.

61

Even the minister for public security published figures admitting that
“mass incidents, or demonstrations and riots”  rose to 74,000 in 2004,
up from just 10,000 a decade ago,  and 58,000 in 2003. ( New York
Times, August 24, 2005) .....

.............
Putting  this  understanding  in  a  more  theoretical  context,  one
Zhengzhou worker explained that the current system of “ bureaucratic
capital” is a political problem, not basically one of the economy—an
analysis that could have come straight out of the Lenin’s What is to be
done ? “ It looks economic on the surface, but it is really a struggle
between  capitalism  and  socialism,”  primarily  a  question  of  politics.
China, he said, is “not like the United States, where they never had
socialism. Older workers understand this historical context. Most went
through the Mao era and Cultural Revolution. They experienced Mao
Zedong Thought, and their generation wants to bring China back to
‘Mao’s road.’ It is part of the international struggle to protect the socialist
path.”

On his recent visit, Chinese President Hu JIn Tao advised CPIM
to  be  even  more  pragmatic.  Evidently  capitalist  roader  CPC  and
revisionist CPIM are in the same boat which the people of West Bengal,
India and China will be united in rocking!
Often the Maoists are given sermons about entering
the mainstream and contesting elections. However what
does an honest analysis of our legislature yield? Let us
see:

The recent Lok Sabha elections had clearly been a vote to oust
the LPG policies - overturning the NDA at the Centre, the “blue eyed
boy of the World Bank” Chandrababu Naidu, the kisan killer Chautala,
the employee baiter Jayalalitha. Yet the newly elected UPA has not
moved even an inch from these policies rather it has pursued them
doggedly. The  Sensex  manipulated  by  FFIs  and  monopoly  players
was playing a bigger role than the ballot box in ensuring that all the
World  Bank  candidates  Manmohan  Singh,  Chidambaram  etc.  got
ministerial berths.

60

reads:

“In  1948,  while  laying  the  foundation  stone  of  Hirakund  dam,
Jawahar Lal Nehru told the villagers, “If you are to suffer, you should
suffer in the interest of the country.” and termed the dams as “the
temples of development”. In 1994 the Govt. of India admitted that 10
million (1 crore) people displaced by dams, mines, deforestation and
other development projects were still “awaiting rehabilitation”. (A figure
that  is  considered  as  gross  underestimation  by  most  independent
researchers). It was revealed in 2001 that over 700 people displaced
by the construction of Bhakra Dam (started in 1948 and completed in
1963)  are  still  awaiting  rehabilitation  (The  Tribune,  19th  December,
2001).

According to a study of 58 dams conducted by the Indian Institite
of Public Administration, nearly 62% of the population displaced were
tribals (Adibasi) and members of the scheduled castes. But nationally
together they make up only a little over 24.5% of the population. For
tribals  (Adibasi)  alone,  their  proportion  in  the  national  population  is
only a little over 8%, while their proportion among the displaced was
over 47%. The same proportions hold true for the mining projects. So
the “suffering” is still going on after 58 years of political independence,
and the “sufferers” in their tens and millions are the poorest and most
vulnerable.”  Our  country  has  become  a  hunting  ground  for  the
multinationals.
Coca Cola Plant in Plachimada, Kerala

A Coca Cola plant was commissioned in village Plachimada of
district Palghat, Kerala in March 2000 to produce 12,24,000 bottles of
Coca  Cola  and  other  bevarages.  The  company  started  to  illegally
extract about 15 lakh litres of clean ground water per day through 6
bore wells using electric pumps. The ground water level fell from 150
feet to 500 feet, thus drying up other water sources. The company
started expelling its waste water into the fields, and selling sludge as
fertilizer. The crops of the farmers began to get affected and drinking
water sources got toxic and polluted. Particularly women, who had to
walk miles to fetch water, initiated the struggle against the company.
They  began  a  continuous  dharna.  The  police  arrested  hundreds  of

53

men, women and children, but used to protect the company faithfully.
On one occassion 130 protestors were arrested and adivasi women
were manhandled and their clothes were torn. This agitation had even
forced the High Court to direct Coca Cola to stop this illegal syphoning
of water, though the company is trying every means to circumvent it.
The peasants of Ghadsana are refused a drop of water, but
the Coca Cola company gets 15 lakh litre a day. The Centre for Science
and  Environment  confirms  the  existence  of  hazardous  levels  of
pesticides  yet  Coke  and  Pepsi  continue  to  be  sold  and  advertised.
What explains this clout? See the statement of Geoge Fernandes at
Page 56-57.
Study the role of the judiciary

It gives a fair picture of the class struggle waged by finance capital
against labour and the toiling people “From the time the Indian ruling
classes adopted the neoliberal economic regime in 1991, workers in
the  private  corporate  sector  have  suffered  their  worst  defeat  since
independence.  The  working  class  has  faced  a  unified  anti-worker
multiparty dictatorship, whether the face was that of Chidambaram or
Advani, whether judge or party leader or mass media or police, no
electoral exercise has slowed the assault on their ability to resist the
extremes  of  exploitation.  ...  RBI  surveys  show  that,  comparing  the
average of 1988-1991 to that of 2001-2004, the share of wages has
fallen from 49.8% to 39.1%, before tax profit have risen from 28.9%
to40.4% and managerial remuneration has gone from 0.2% to 1.0% -
a five fold increase”

 Aspects of the Indian Economy, June, 2005

In the recent months the Supreme Court has delivered several
judgements  hostile  to  labour,  which  according  to  The Associated
Chambers  of  Commerce  and  Industry  of  India  (Assocham)  are
“landmark” judgements establishing “significant” precedents. Assocham
arranged workshops for managers to discuss the new tools placed at
their disposal by the judiciary.

Some  of  the  recent  orders  amounting  to  a  judicial  anti-labour

wave are -

54

industries  in  Chhattisgarh  and  under  the  LPG  regime,  non-
implementation of the labour laws - even minimum wages and 8-hour
work - is rampant in the industrial areas. The working class bastis are
faced with the threat of eviction. Presently the movement is grappling
with these issues with some success. This movement is yet another
example  to  show  the  attitude  of  the  state  towards  democratic
movements well within the constitutional framework.

In Chhattisgarh, the movement of the young educated “shiksha
karmis” on the principle of ‘equal pay for equal work’ is also persisting
despite  brutal  lathi  charges,  arrests  and  repeated  betrayals  by  the
Congress-BJP leaderships.
We must learn from the struggles of the Chinese working
class

An article of Robert Weil in the Analytical Monthly Review of June
2006 describes the conditions of the Chinese working class under a
similar LPG onslaught as below:

“With the throwing open of the country to the global market place,
the  sale  of  lands  by  local  officials  to  developers  without  adequate
compensation to the villagers, and rampant environmental devastation
of the rural areas, this policy has left hundreds of millions struggling to
find a viable way to earn a living, while stripping them of the collective
social  supports  that  they  had  previously  enjoyed.  Over  100  million
have become part of the massive migration to the cities, seeking work
in construction, the new export oriented factories, or the dirtiest and
most dangerous jobs, where they lack even the most basic rights. For
many migrants, conditions are deteriorating rapidly as they settle semi-
permanently in the urban communities and as their age and health
problems mount.

Chinese working classes have not been passive in the face of
their deteriorating conditions and the loss of rights won over decades
through struggle and sacrifice in the socialist revolution. Class conflict
and social turmoil have surged to levels not seen for decades. The
workers, peasants, and migrants in China today are mounting some
of the largest demonstrations anywhere in the world, at times involving
tens of thousands and resulting in violent clashes with the authorities.
59

repressive  state,  but  againt  those  MPs  who  were  asking  disturbing
questions to the Home Minister Shivraj Patil.

When a journalist from the electronic media asked Mr. Gurudas
Dasgupta  to  explain  his  hypocritical  behaviour  of  supporting  a
government carrying out LPG reforms in the parliament and opposing
it in the streets , Mr. Gupta became visibly furious but couldn’t say a
word. Earlier he had spelled out the limits of revisionism when he said
that if the government didn’t agree to their demands they would stage
a walk-out from the parliament. When asked what if  government didn’t
listen to them still, Mr. Gupta remained silent for some time and then
dejectedly said, we shall again stage a walk-out.
Working class movement in Bhilai

Thousands  of  workers  of  Bhilai  had  started  their  agitation  for
implentation of labour laws in October, 1990 under the leadership of
Shankar Guha Neogi of Chhattisgarh Mukti Morcha. There were many
assaults on them by the private goonda army of the industrialists killing
and injuring many trade union activists. More than 4000 workers were
thrown out of their jobs for becoming members of the unions affiliated
to CMM. When these attempts failed to curb the agitation, the state
police  came  farward  to  serve  the  industrialists.  Many  lathi-charges,
mass arrests of workers and externment charges against Neogi were
carried out. Neogi went to Delhi with 400 representatives of the workers
and submitted a memorandum to the President of India signed by 50
thousand people demanding implementation of the laws of the land
and ‘right to life’ . Just about two weeks later, on 28thSeptember, 1991
the goons of the industrialists assasinated him. The workers continued
their agitation. On July 1, 1992 there was a brutal police firing by the
BJP govt of Sunderlal Patwa on the workers when they were sitting on
the Mumbai-Howrah line in a rail-roko agitation. In this firing, 16 workers
were killed and more than 100 workers, men and women, were injured
in the firing. No police official was tried for killing of the workers but a
large  number  of  trade-union  activists  were  implicated  under  false
charges of murder etc.

 Only some partial gains have been achieved in this agitation.
The trade union movement has spread to some new industrial centres.
Foreign multinationals are beginning to buy out many of the indigenous
58

- Supreme Court upheld the Bharat Forge Company Ltd. dismissal
of an employee who had fallen asleep. The bench made the sweeping
statement that falling asleep at work amounted to a level of misconduct
that could justify  dismissal. (Interestingly ,there are so many judges,
of the Supreme Court  well -known for sleeping while presiding over
the Court. One notable example is of Justice A.R.Lakshmanan)

- Allowing  an  appeal  filed  by  Mahindra  &  Mahindra  Ltd.,  the
Supreme Court upheld the company’s decision to dismiss an employee
for using “filthy” language against his boss 11 years ago.

- A  Supreme  Court  bench  upheld  the  dismissal  of  a  group  of
employees of a Faridabad based private company who had gheraoed
their  senior  officer.  The  court  said,  “Once  the  participation  of  the
employees had been conclusively proved, they would not be entitled
to any relief in any manner”.

-  The  Tamilnadu  High  Court,  having  first  declared  a  strike  of
170,000 state government employees illegal then refused to set aside
punitive  dismissals  stating  that  government  employees  “under  no
circumstances  have  any  fundamental,  legal  or  moral  right  to  go  on
strike  ...  Even  the  trade-unions,  who  have  a  guaranteed  right  for
collective bargaining, have no right to go on strikes.”

- The Calcutta High Court has banned rallies on weekdays.
- The “SAIL” judgement of the Supreme Court ensures that no

contract labourer can approach the courts for regularisation.

- The “Uma Devi” judgement of the Supreme Court has rejected

the possibility of regularisation of daily wagers.

- A recent shocking judgement of Arijit Pasayat holding that “casual
workmen are not covered by the Workmens Compensation Act” has
opened the doors for  employers to literally squeeze out the blood of
workers in low paid, hazardous work.

- The judgement of the Supreme Court in the Balco privatization
case  prevents  trade  unions  from  challenging  policy  changes  in  the
public sector.

- The Supreme Court has even held that private security guards
of  an  industry  who  shot  and  killed  agitating  workmen  would  not  be
55

charged u/s 302 since they were protecting private property, thus giving
a license to private armies of industrialists to murder at will.

While the character of the judiciary has been visible in the “Delhi
shop sealing case” against small shopkeepers and the “Almitra Patel”
case holding slum dwellers to be encroachers and ‘like pickpockets’
deserving only eviction, its bias is most systematic in its judgements
against the working class.

Adressing a May Day rally in Calcutta last year Jyoti Basu had
said  that  the  trade  unions  will  have  to  get  ”  the  Supreme  Court  to
change its views”.

On this hypocritical statement, the Analytical Monthly Review has
aptly commented that “trade union unity counts for little if the initiative
of the  employees .... is consistently discouraged in order to create an
‘investment friendly’ environment or ‘to not destabilize the government’.”
The Gurgaon Workers Struggle

One of the important trade union struggles which brought out the
ferocious character of the state was that of the workers of the Honda
Motorcycle and Scooter India (HMSI), Manesar, Gurgaon.

The HMSI has around 4000 employees out of which about 3000
are permanent and 1000 are employed on a casual basis. A Japanese
manager kicked a worker on the shop floor in December 2004. The
services  of  four  workers  who  came  to  his  rescue  were  terminated.
Fifty  workers  who  protested  against  this  unfair  dismissal  were  also
placed  on  suspension.  There  were  other  cases  of  humiliation  and
harassment also.The simmering discontent culminated in the formation
of a trade union affiliated with the AITUC.

On  27  June,  2005  the  company  imposed  a  ‘good  conduct
undertaking’ on the entire workforce: they could not form any union,
call strikes, move courts or ask for monetary increments till 2008. The
factory’s 3500 employees faced a lockout. ... On the same day, several
union leaders were assaulted by goondas hired by the Honda Company
and a union leader was thrown from the third floor. He suffered several
fractures and serious injuries.

Three agreements were concluded under the aegis of the Labour

56

Commissioner wherein the company agreed to take the workers back
in  separate  batches.  However,  it  reneged  on  its  commitment. The
stalemate continued even after the issue was raised before the Prime
Minister by CPI Parliamentarian and AITUC National General Secretary,
Gurudas  Dasgupta.

So on 25 July, the workers along with other trade unions marched
in  protest  to  the  mini-Secretariat. A  small  police  squad  stopped  the
procession  when  it  reached  the  Gurgaon  industrial  area.  In  the
afternoon, the workers were called to a park near the office of Deputy
Commissioner for discussions with the administration. While the crowd
was  waiting  peacefully,  a  huge  police  contingent  launched  itself  on
the hapless crowd and savaged them. The fact that additional forces
were brought in from adjoining districts for this attack suggests prior
planning by the authorities and that the police action had support at
the highest political level. Incidentally, Mr. Sandeep Hooda, Manager,
Manesar  factory,  is  a  relation  of  the  Haryana  Chief  Minister,  Mr.
Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Predictably no punitive action has been taken
against the police or district administration.

After intense pressure upon Honda and the government following
massive and widespread protests in Gurgaon, Delhi and all over India,
a tripartite agreement was reached between the management, state
government and the workers.

The Indian Express reports: “India today sought to make the point
that an  ‘isolated incident’ of labour unrest at the Gurgaon-based Honda
Motorcycle  and  Scooter  India  should  not  become  a  benchmark  for
judging the investment climate in the country. New Delhi underlined
that the ‘legal interest’ of foreign investors will be ‘fully safeguarded’.
The  Government  reaction  came  as  a  response  to  Japanese
Ambassador Enoki’s remark that unrest at the Honda unit could have
an adverse impact on the inflow of foreign direct investment into India”.
The West Bengal Commerce and Industries Minister and CPI(M)
Central Committee Member, Mr. Nirupam Sen lost no time in ‘dispelling
Japanese fears’ and assured investors that similar incidents shall not
take place in West Bengal.

Mr. Somnath Chatterjee, speaker, was seen to be very disturbed
and angry. But this anger was not against the spokepersons of the
57

On 15th October 2006 a trader of Dornapal (district Dantewada)
– Shekhar Sah aged 41 years was found shot through the head. The
previous evening two Naga jawans had had a dispute with him over a
paltry sum of Rs. 15, when they were purchasing undergarments from
his hosiery shop. They took him with them and the next day his body
was found. On 16th October the traders of Dornapal declared a bandh
against the atrocities of the Naga battalion.

The Indian State uses the same cruel counter insurgency tactics

everywhere – Kashmir, Manipur, or Bastar.

Another  diabolically  cruel  assault  on  the  people  is  through  the
policy  of  creating  espionage  networks  and  recruiting  surrendered
militants to spy on the people and commit barbaric torture for which
none is accountable. This is most poignantly described by the death
row convict of Kashmir - Mohammed Afzal:

“ I know from last seven years how the STF (Special Task Force)
men  kill  the  Kashmiris,  how  they  make  youth  invisible  and  had
disappeared them while killing them in custody. I am living eye-witness
to various tortures and custodial killings and I am myself the victim of
STF  terror  and  torture.  Being  a  surrendered  militant  of  JKLF  I  was
constantly  harassed,  threatened  and  agonized  by  various  security
agencies like Army, B.S.F. and S.T.F. But since S.T.F. is unorganized,
without being unaccountable a band and gang of renegades patronized
by the State government. They intrude every house, everywhere in
Kashmir anytime day or night. If anybody is picked up by S.T.F. and
his family came to know this, the family only wait to get his dead body
which they hope. But usually they never came to know his whereabouts.
6000 youth have disappeared. Under these circumstances and under
this fearful environment persons like me are always ready to play any
dirty game in the hands of S.T.F. Just for survival. The people who are
able to pay in terms of cash are not forced to do the dirty things the
way I did as I was not able to pay.”

 His wife Tabassum sums up the situation in Kashmir like this:
“You will think Afzal must be involved in some militant activities that is
why the security forces were torturing him to extract information. But
you must understand the situation in  Kashmir. Every man, woman,
and child has some information on the movement even if they are not
80

dominated  districts  -  Thane,  Nandurbar,  Nashik,  Amravati,  and
Gadchiroli. These are government figures.

The Human Development Report 2005 reported that “Bangladesh
has an infant mortality rate of 46 per 1,000 live births compared to 63
for India. Had India matched Bangladesh’s rate of reduction in child
mortality over the past decade, 7.32 lakh fewer children would die this
year.” On HDI ranking, India is again ranked at 127 this year against a
total of 177 countries.

Over  the  last  two  months,  in  hospitals  in  Gorakhpur  the  death
toll, almost all children, from the outbreak of Japanese encephelitis
(JE)  has  now  reached  over  700.... At  least  another  3,040  patients
remain hospitalized, most of them children, said O.P. Singh, the state’s
Director General of Health Services. With a fatality rate between 30
and 60 percent, senior health ministry officials predict that JE could
claim over 2,000 lives by December.... Some analysts say it could have
been prevented. India produces about 4,00,000 doses annually of a
Japanese encephalitis vaccine used in the United States and some
other countries. It is labour intensive and requires three injections to
be  effective,  costing  about  $3  per  child.  However,  Uttar  Pradesh
neglected vaccination drives despite smaller outbreaks nearly every
year for the last two decades. An Uttar Pradesh health official noted,
‘Though JE is a recurring problem in Uttar Pradesh, we can’t vaccinate
seven million plus children in the state every season. It will cost us
US$58 million. (Rs. 2610 crores)”

It is to be noted that owing to the proposed SEZs which the Central
and  state  governments  are  pressing  ahead  to  establish  despite
widespread protest, it is estimated that the govt. will lose about Rs.
90,000  crores  in  revenue.  But  of  course  vaccinating  children  is  too
expensive for the govt. to contemplate. Thus it is clear that the LPG
policies are wreaking death and devastation on the vast majority of
the people of India. Let us see how the renowned Bengali authoress
Mahasweta Devi characterises this situation in her appeal regarding
protests  against  forcible  land  acquisition  at  Singur,  West  Bengal
published on the front page of the Bengali daily “Dainik Statesman”
65

on  27/11/2006

“A Message of Warning

Singur is in danger! East Medinipur is in danger!
Today just before leaving for Shantiniketan I am giving the readers

a grave message of warning – an S.O.S.

After 29/11/06 the fascist State Government is sending 10, 20 or
maybe 50 thousand police to grab the land in Singhur. There will be
one policeman for each struggling man or woman – that is the news.
All  the  thanas  of  district  Hooghly  are  being  emptied  and  police  are
being brought from there. Along with them will be CPM “cadre vahini”.
They  will  take  Singhur. They  will  take  the  coastal  and  surrounding
agricultural lands of the East Medinipur.

Buddhadev  and  Bush  have  become  one.  I  am  not  able  to
have faith in the other constituent parties of the Front. I am addressing
all the people of West Bengal including the writers, artists, intellectuals,
students  and  women.  Intellectuals,  do  not  let  the  allurement  of
governmental awards make you keep a distance. All the organizations
must join in. Rivers of blood will flow. The State Government will deploy
police. Wherever one is, all must go to Singur. Otherwise at least protest
in one’s own place.

This is a war. I will say to the women of Singur. Keep chilly powder
and salt with you. Throw it into the eyes of the assailants including the
police.

If it was possible I would have gone too, but I am not able.
Post Script – On Saturday evening there was a Citizens Convention
in support of Singur at Chakdah. Today there is a rally in Barasat. It is
being reported that 40 organisations have signed the memorandum.
This is a war. All have to react collectively. Singur is watching
you.”

Yours,

  Mahasweta  Devi.

66

residents  of  Odgi    (district  Sarguja)  -  teachers,  students  and  other
employees were brutally beaten up by the CRPF jawans. …..Among
the victims of the CRPF atrocities were teacher Pradeep Singh, retd.
Teacher SR Pandey, junior engineer of Pradhanmantri Sadak Yojana
Akhilesh  Kumar  Singh,  tailor Abdul  Jabbar  Khan,  tailor  Ramprasad
Sahu, Vijay Gurjar and students of the hostel, Jeetlal, Shivshankar,Amrit
Toppo etc. ……Agitated by the incident the residents of Odgi gave an
ultimatum of agitation from 7 am and started shouting slogans. The
agitated crowd started a road-block by burning tyres.

The  residents  of  Odgi  disclosed  the  excesses  of  the  CRPF.
…..They  said  that  beating  up  of  the  general  citizens  is  a  routine
here.The CRPF are involved in sexual assaults on the simple women,
teasing the girl students of the hostel, and entering into houses of the
villagers. Indulging in drinking and behaving obscenely is routine. The
villagers said that now the limit has been reached and this can not be
tolerated any more. They demanded removal of the batallion and action
against the the accused jawans”.    ( Navbharat August 17,2006).

In the Gollapalli incident, on November 5, 2004 the police went
berserk and shot three young teachers Malla Markam, Santosh Thakur
and Sodhi Hidma and a 12 year old student Hapka Nagendra point-
blank  in  Village  Golapalli,  district  Dantewada,  and  then  released  a
statement in the press that three persons were killed in a cross-fire
between  police  and  the  naxalites.  Fortunately  one  of  the  teachers,
Santosh Thakur survived and told the true story to the world. Nearly
ten  thousand  people  took  out  a  procession  along  with  the  Shiksha
Karmi Sangh (Contract Teachers Union) in Konta protesting against
these police atrocities.

Jean Dreze, a renowned economist, who had closely worked with
the UPA  government to draft the National Rural Employment Guarantee
Act had led a Yatra through out the country to mobilize support for the
passage of the Act. When the Yatra was passing through Sarguja, the
police led by the notorious SP Kalluri (famed for fake encounters and
custodial torture) resorted to a lathi-charge on the meeting in which
several persons were injured including Jean Dreze  himself. Kalluri
unashamedly made a statement to the Haribhoomi (30 April 05) that
he had suspected that this was a Naxalite meeting.

79

Here is a report of the incident and protests by the local tribals

carried by the  daily Dainik Bhaskar:

 “Today adivasis held a mahasabha (‘grand assembly’) in protest
against the attempt by SAF jawans to outrage the modesty of an adivasi
women in Kondagaon (district Bastar). More than 5000 adivasis of the
Bastar division congregated on this occasion.

In the rally, people carrying banners and posters were shouting
slogans against the government. During the rally the National Highway
No. 43 was blocked for quite some time.… On 23rd July two jawans of
the  SAF  forcibly  entered  a  house  in  the  Bandhwapara  locality  of
Kondagaon  in  the  darkness  of  night  and  tried  to  molest  an  adivasi
woman.  On  the  woman  raising  a  hue  and  cry,  the  residents  of  the
neighbourhood  gathered  and  caught  hold  of  one  jawan.  The  other
ran away and came back with the other jawans of the camp armed
with lathis. After this the jawans got together and beat up with lathis all
the persons present.

… About 125-150 government employees of the division took
leave from their offices to attend the rally. These persons concealed
their identity to avoid their names being published,

Sonau  Ram  Netam,  the  President  of  the  Gondwana  Samaj
Adivasi Mahasabha said that no-one is concerned about the suffering
of  the  adivasis.  He  condemned  the  terror  perpetrated  by  the  SAF
jawans  on  the  Markam  family  and  the  people  of  their  locality  and
demanded that stringent action should be taken.”

And this incident is far from being an isolated one.
With the heavy deployment of para-military forces in the state,
such atrocities by the state forces have become an everyday affair.
One such incident had   taken place on  so-called independence day
15th August 2006 at a  village Odgi in district Sarguja so infuriated the
villagers  that  they  gheraoed  a  thana  and    demanded  that  the
paramilitary be withdrawn. Here is the report.
Bandh and road-block in Odgi, Sarguja Demand to
remove the CRPF batallion.

“On  the  evening  of  the  independence  day  celebrations  the

78

CHAPTER  FOUR

Mechanisms of Imperialist Rule
Politico-Economic  and  Politico-

Military

Let us recall, the gruesome picture of adivasis killed point blank
and their mutilated dead bodies in Kalinga Nagar to serve Ratan Tata.
Kalinga  Nagar  in  Orissa,  Lohandiguda  in  Bastar-Chhattisgarh,  and
Singur in West Bengal.

Suddenly the Tata group has come out so aggressively on the

people in various parts of India.

What  can  this  qualitative  aggressiveness  of  the  Tata  be

attributed  to?

Well, Ratan Tata has been made Co-Chair of the U.S.-India CEO
Forum  in  the  privileged  company  of  Willian  Harrison  of  JP  Morgan
Chase,  along  with  the  leaders  of  Citicorp,  Cargil,  Pepsico,  Mukesh
Ambani etc.
Clearly ,
U.S.-India CEO Forum is the Imperialist-Comprador seat of power
with Ratan Tata acting as the main agent of the imperialists.  So he
comes out with proportionate arrogance and aggression.

The  Report  of  the  US-India  CEO  Forum  entitled  “U.S.-India
Strategic Economic Partnership” was released during the recent Bush
visit. Like Shylock, the U.S. big capitalists are eager to extract every
drop from our economy.

The  small  industrialists  of  Chhattisgarh,  Orissa  and  Jharkhand
had  resorted  to  a  two-day  bandh  demanding  supply  of  cheap  coal
and iron-ore. For that purpose they had demanded that the government
should  take  care  of  the  small  players,  and  had  also  sought
nationalization of precious mineral resources. But on   the other hand
the  U.S.  -  India  CEO  Forum  is  demanding  a  new  Act  to
denationalize Coal to monopolize it. Vast numbers of Indians who
find  it  difficult  to  make  two  ends  meet  are  seeking  a  reduction  in
67

electricity  charges,  but  the  CEO  Forum  wants  further  reduction  of
subsidies and increased charges in the name of ‘honest implementation’
of the Electricity Act 2003.

U.S.-Tata CEO Forum has decided to set up a $ 5 billion private
sector    Infrastructure  Fund  (minority  Government  participation)  with
the participation of US companies to fund infrastructure projects under
the supervision of  multilateral agencies like the World Bank, ADB and
IFC. There are further   proposals to involve the US in the development
of Mumbai into a ‘Regional Financial Centre’.

U.S.-Tata CEO Forum notes that “Indian infrastructure needs
exceed  its    funding  capacity,  which  can  be  met  by American
assistance  and  funding.”  The  Forum  sees  new  possibilities  in
building Special Economic Zones (SEZ) to cater to overseas as well
as  domestic  markets. “World  class  infrastructure”  and “flexible,
internationally competitive labour laws” would provide   incentives
for  investment.  The  Forum  moots  the  formation  of  a  task  force
comprising  business  interests  to  work  with  the  Central  and  State
governments to “expedite execution of plans to set up such SEZs”
The  Union  Carbide  gas  leak  in  Bhopal  killed  more  than  7000
persons. The gas affected survivors are fighting for the redressal of
crimes committed by a U.S. company. They recently came to know
that the U.S. company that had taken up the liabilities of Union Carbide
in Bhopal, namely Cherokee, had negotiated with Citibank, Tata and
The Dow Chemical Company, all three members of the   U.S.-India
CEO Forum. The CEO Forum put forward a proposal applying pointed
pressure on Indian officials in this regard, namely: “Specific focus on
resolving legacy issues such as those impacting Dow/ Bhopal tragedy
of 1984 .... would send a strong positive signal to U.S. investors.”.

Within weeks of these proposals, officials in the U.S. government
were dutifully repeating the party line. The U.S. Trade Representative
said that he was aware that many American companies have liability
and insurance concerns about  doing business in India after the 1984
gas  leak  at  the  Union  Carbide  plant  in  Bhopal.  He  was  quoted  as
saying:

“We’ve raised these concerns with the Indians. I’m hoping that
they will be addressed to the satisfaction of our companies .....At the
68

of KAMS, was killed by the Naga police and the Salwa Judum goons in
the most brutal manner.

Four women of Jangla - Munni, Kalmu, Jayyu and Korsa Butke,
all belonging to the KAMS were caught by the police and the goons in
a search operation and they were gang-raped. They were taken to a
‘relief camp’ where they were physically exploited regularly.

Mase Parso, 35 years, from village Chinnapalli in Bhairamgarh
block, was gang raped by the Salwa Judum goons on February 1, and
then brutally attacked with knife. The PLGA soldiers who had reached
there the next day, treated her wounds. But because of damage to the
vocal  chords caused by the injury, she  has lost her voice.

The Salwa Judum goons (SPO’s), from Kotmetta and Jegur village
caught Lakke of Eadwada village and 15 of them gang-raped her in
December 2005. She has been kept in Jangla ‘relief camp’.

Women comrades Korsa Santu, Modium Sukki and Kurram Lakki,
all leading activists of the KAMS were brutally tortured and murdered
by paramilitary and Salwa Judum goons even as they were bravely
resisting them.

These are only some of the gruesome crimes against the adivasi
women. Apart  from  such  direct  physical  assaults,  the  thousands  of
adivasis, who are forcibly kept in the ‘relief camps’ are living on the
verge of  starvation. There are many reports that women are being
forced into selling their bodies just to make two ends meet. The reports
of a large   number of cases of medical termination of pregnancies of
women SPOs and forcible “marriages” in the camps that have been
filtering  out  are      indeed    alarming.    The    CMO    Dantewada    has
admitted  that  a    number  of  para-military jawans appear to be AIDS
patients    and  this fact makes the issue of sexual violence and also of
prostitution  even  more  serious.
Atrocities on the people of Chhattisgarh by para-military
forces.
Thousands of adivasis protest at Kondagaon against
molestation of an adivasi woman by SAF jawans.

77

dignity.  What  is  her  fault?  Why  do  the  state  forces  institutionalize
violation  of  human  rights?  Why  has  woman’s  body  always  been
targeted  to  exercise  ‘armed  authority’  of  the  State?  These  are  the
questions  that  the  democratic  struggle  poses  against  the  rampant
violation of human rights in the state.”

There  are  reports  of  continuing  atrocities  on  the  people  of
Manipur by the armed forces and the people are again taking to the
streets. On November 13, 2006 police killed N. Binoy just as he was
released from jail. Protesting against this grotesque murder, various
organizations called for a 48 hour Manipur bandh  under the banner
of the Joint Action Committee. This bandh was a total success and
normal life in Manipur came to a grinding halt.
There are many Manoramas and Naobis in Bastar.

One of the most gruesome incident related in the ICI report:
 “ We met a female inmate of the Jagdalpur Jail who said she
had been picked up while accompanying her brother on a cycle, to
visit their sister. Her brother was shot dead in front of her and she was
first gang-raped by the CRPF near the roadside and then sent to the
local thana where she was held and gang-raped for another ten days,
after which she was sent to Jagdalpur Jail. The other women in jail
corroborated that when she first arrived , she was so swollen from the
sexual torture that she could hardly walk. This woman (whose identity
we cannot reveal ) is currently charged under the arms act and dacoity.
This woman was not on the Maoist list of women raped”.

On 15th August 2005 (ironically) in Karremarka village, the Naga
police and Salwa Judum goons caught the president of the Krantikari
Adivasi Mahila Sangathan Madri Sarita, gang raped her and brought
her bleeding and unconscious to the Bhairamgarh Thana, where she
was raped for several days. Another woman Telam Jamli of the same
village was gang-raped by the Naga jawans and thrown in the jungle
in a state of unconsciousness.

On September 1, 2005 police and the Salwa Judum goons caught
Budri, Somari and Munni of Kogam village and gang raped them. Their
cloths were taken off and they were dragged to Mirtur police station,
beating them all the way. Korma Santo of Phulgatta village, a member
76

end of the day, India has worked very hard for this deal and ... I would
assume  is  not  going  to  want  their  own  domestic  corporate  laws  to
stand in the way of them actually  benefiting meaningfully.”’

So the U.S.-India CEO Forum represented by Ratan Tata has
become  the  instrument  to  threaten  the  gas  affected  people
into submission to serve the U.S. masters.

Notwithstanding  the  euphoria  of  Buddhadev  Bhattacharya  and
others, the much celeberated acquisition of Corus by Tata is actually
a fullfilment of the longstanding need of western big capital. It is a well
known  fact  that  Corus  had  been    restructuring  its  operations  since
July 2005 and was looking for a low-cost   partner in countries like
India, Russia and Brazil.

Experts are of the opinion that the main reason for Corus’s interest
in  Tata  Steel  is  its  access  to  captive  iron  ore  and  coal  mines.
Comparative cost of a ton of steel for Corus in UK is $320, which is
twice of Tata Steel’s $160 per ton in India. Tata makes a $1.5 billion of
operating profits (on five million tpa) whereas Corus makes only $1.9
billion  on  18  million  tpa.  This  big  difference  in  cost  is  due  to  the
availability of cheap raw material and cheap labour.

Tata Steel has also firmed up plans to set up capacities equivalent
to 33 million tpa, most of these projects also have 100% coverage for
iron ore and other inputs like coal. So, that is where the value of Tata
actually lies. It in the availability of cheap mineral resources and cheap
labour. And it is the owners of the land,  peasants and tribals and the
labour who are the source of these riches. Therefore they must be
looted and killed if they dare to oppose this daylight robbery.

Naturally, Tata does not have money enough to buy out a concern
thrice its size, let alone for projects of 33 million tpa capacity. As the
U.S.-India CEO Forum has succintly put it: “Indian infrastructure needs
exceed  its  funding  capacity”. After  accounting  for  all  the  resources
and loans etc. Tata falls short by atleast $6.3 billion. This, it is claimed
is planned to be “raised through debt by Tata Steel UK”. and this is a
“leveraged buy up”. This debt will be backed and serviced by cash-
flows from Corus Group. Obviously, the deal is highly leveraged. JP
Morgan Chase, Citycorp, Cargil, Pepsico and Mukesh Ambani in the

69

US-India CEO Forum. What greater lever?

It is worth recalling that the great grand father of Ratan Tata had
made the Tata’s first big money as a broker, shipping opium to China
for British companies. Today his great grandson is acting broker for
international  finance  capital,  for  enormously  precious  mineral
resources.

No wonder, whether it is Kalinga Nagar in Orissa, Lohandiguda in
Bastar-Chhattisgarh or Singur in West Bengal, Ratan Tata is at the
forefront  of  devastating  class-war  by  the  imperialists  and  the
compradors against not only the Maoists in Bastar; not only against
more than one lakh members of DAKMS, KAMS, KABS etc; but also
against  the  whole  population  of  tribal  majority  Bastar;  against  the
peasants, workers and also the small industrialists of Chhattisgarh,
Orissa and Jharkhand. This is also a war by the number one enemy of
the world people - U.S. state power and its lackeys like Ratan Tata,
Manmohan and Raman against the vast majority; it is a war to rob the
coming generations of the riches of the mother earth exploiting them
mercilessly, playing havoc with man and nature.
Indo-U.S. Defence Policy Group at Work

Indo-Pak Agreement  to  have  common  intelligence  network
demonstrates  that  like  Pakistan  and  Israel,  India  is  a  lackey  of  the
U.S., at the most of a different status.

In the recently concluded NAM summit in Hawana, Manmohan
Singh and Parvez Musharaff had a meeting on September 12, 2006
and decided to have a  common intelligence network. It is apparent
that this agreement has been concluded in the U.S. Defence Policy
framework. Intelligence agencies are the innermost core of any state
power and relations at that level show the degree of collusion. The
extra legal stature of CIA in the power structure of the U.S. state is
quite well known.

Pakistan’s lackey status vis-a-vis U.S. has been public for some
time now. Its notorious intelligence agency ISI (Interservices Intelligence)
has been created by the U.S. and the most decisive influence on it is
also exercised by the U.S. For example, uptill now, every single head
of the ISI has been appointed in  ‘consultation’ with the U.S.
70

CHAPTER FIVE

The State sends out its invading

occupational  army

In the name of dealing with insurgency - Police, Paramilitary,
IRB  battalions  Naga  and  Mizo,  behave  as  an  army  of
occupation.
The stark demonstration of women against the Assam Rifles
in Manipur is a testimony.
There  are  Many  Manoramas  in  Bastar.
Even  the  Naga  people  are  demanding  withdrawal  of  the
Naga  Battalion  from  Bastar,  Chhattisgarh.

A  release  of  the  Manipur  Student  Association,  Delhi  is

excerpted  below:

“ It has been hardly two years since women of Manipur staged a
historic  protest  by  shedding  their  clothes  off  against  the  rape  and
murder of Th. Manorama by the 17th Assam Rifles. The world showed
its solidarity to them and demanded   repealing of the Armed Forces
Special Powers Act, 1958.

Among  the  most  painful  incidents  of  the  military  excesses  in
Manipur,  the  recent  detention  and  torture  of  Miss  Naobi  has  once
more captured the focus of the democratic struggles against human
rights violations in the state.

Miss  Naobi,  a  private  school  teacher,  was  picked  up  on  21st
February  evening(2006),  when  she  came  to  attend  the  last  rites  of
Vikas,  who  was  killed  in  an  encounter  with  the  Manipur  police
commandos on 20th February. In a press briefing on 2nd March in Imphal,
she  presented  her  tortured  body  to  narrate  the  encounter  with  the
savagery of the Manipur police for the 9 days in their custody.

A widespread movement was voiced for Naobi’s safe release. She
was  released  from  the  custody  unconditionally  on  2nd  March  with  a
brutally tortured body, deeply wounded psyche and painfully dislodged

75

Today,  crisis-ridden  finance  capital  is  out  for  aggressive
exploitation the world over. The Indian state’s journey towards a tie up
with  the  U.S.  as  its  lackey,  is  accompanied  by  the  most  ruthless
repression on the people of India who are demanding the basic rights
to live.

The most discredited monarchy in Nepal would not have survived

for so long without U.S.-India interference.

There are many instances to show that the military campaign of
the Indian state against the adivasis and the Maoists is being directly
monitored  by  the  U.S.  (This  has  been  described  in  some  detail  in
other chapters.) U.S. imperialism, armed with its executive tools - the
U.S.-India CEO Forum and the Indo-U.S. Defense Policy Group. We
are in for most bloody attacks on the people of India. This is the gravest
internal consequence of the Indian state acting as a lackey of the U.S.

74

Apart  from  the  US-India  CEO  Forum,  master  and  lackey  have
also  formed      the  Indo-US  Defense  Policy  Group.  It  is  through  this
forum that the strategic ties of US-India are being implemented.

Rahul  Bedi  writing  for  Frontline  (20/7/2002)  says  army  officers
admit that  Washington is using the same tested technique with the
Indian military that it used successfully with its Pakistani counterpart.
“Washington  augmented  its    influence  in  Islamabad  by  regularly
dispatching Pakistani service officers and their children to the US on
courses and scholarships and even assuring them jobs in the US after
retirement.”

Frontline further quotes an officer who had recently been on a
six-weeklong trip to the US saying that a similar co-opting of India’s
military has begun. So many Ministers and MLAs are also similarly
taken abroad for political brainwash.

FBI has opened an office in New Delhi.
During the last visit to India by U.S. President Bush, there were
reports that the Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had to undergo
security  check  by  the  U.S.  security  personnel  in  our  own  country.
Though the PMO quickly came out with a statement denying the same,
there can be no smoke without fire!

We  are  said  to  have  one  of  the  strongest  defence  forces  with
over  10  lakh  servicemen,  but  the  then  defense  minister  George
Fernandes did not have the courage to say a word to oppose strip-
search by U.S. security personnel.

The  ex.  Defence  and  Foreign  Minister  Jaswant  Singh  and  the
whole  parliament  enacted  a  big  drama  about  some American  mole
high up in the govenment but were silenced by one rebuke from their
masters in the U.S. Well, most of them are already party to selling our
sovereignty.

A senior officer of RAW - Rabinder Singh was found to be working
for the CIA. In April 2004, RAW Chief C.D. Sahay reported this to PMO
and National Security Advisor Brijesh Mishra and sought permission
for  action  against  him. Yet  he  was  not  arrested.  On  May  14,  2004
action against Rabinder Singh was approved. On the same day, Singh
and  his  wife  had  left  for  Kathmandu.  There  U.S.  passports  were
71

prepared for them on false names and they flew away to the U.S.

Not only Singh, more than 36 Indian Foreign Service officers have
disappeared while on posting in North American countries. It is also
reported by the Bureau of Security of the Ministry of External Affairs
that  more  than  90%  do  not  return  from  their  postings  in  the  North
American countries.

And  this  class  of  traitors,  sitting  in  parliament,  in  services  or
otherwise,  are  resorting  to  every  kind  of  repression  in  the  name  of
security  and  development  on  the  revolutionaries  and  other  people
fighting for their rights! The ruling classes through Manmohan Singh
sign an agreement with General Musharaff for joint working of RAW
and IB with ISI, and the same ruling class through its media has the
temerity to accuse our party that the Maoists are working with ISI!

Serious  consequences  of  being  a  lackey    of  a  crisis  ridden,

desperate imperialist superpower.

For a long time now, US is able to maintain its economic dominance
through political and military arm-twisting. Even then, its position of
economic  dominance  is  fast  eroding.  In  1950,  the  United  States
accounted for nearly 50% of the world GDP, by 2003 it had fallen to
just above 20%. The U.S. share of global foreign direct investment
has  the  same  graph.  On  the  other  hand,  share  of  the  U.S.  in  the
world’s military spending has gone up to 50%. It is double of what is
spent  by  the  next  six  largest  spenders  -  Russia,  France,  Japan,
Germany, UK, and China put together.

Though the U.S. is the single superpower, its capacity to act as a
global state is doubtful. This has become all the more evident in its
increasing difficulties in sustaining direct military engagement in just
two small countries - Iraq and Afganistan.

So, it is desperate to have lackeys which can be outsourced low

end tasks.

The Middle-East is the world’s richest oil producing region. The
U.S. has dominated this region since the second world war, though its
dominance was not unchallenged when the USSR was in existence.
The present invasion of Iraq by the U.S. is also for the strategic control
of oil. Ever since the second world war, the U.S. has also propped up
72

its client state Israel. The U.S. has seen to it that Israel is never at
peace with its neighbors. Most of the fighting in the region has been
done by the Israeli army. The blood which is shed is of the Arab people
and of the Israelis, and the fruits in terms of oil and the world dominance
go to the U.S. From the class view-point, apart from causing untold
miseries to the whole  populations of Palestine and Lebanon, the toiling
people of Israel are reduced to the role of glorified watch-dogs of the
financial interests of the billionaires sitting in the U.S., Jews or otherwise.
So,  for  India,  a  lackey  status  to  the  U.S.  is  fraught  with  grave

consequences both internally and externally.

Externally, U.S. will fight its competitive war with China using India
as a stooge. It will also see to it that, we are never at peace with our
neighbors.  ‘Aspects  of  India’s  Economy’  (no.  41)  has  brought  out
extensive material to substantiate this. Let us quote one such example.
“ While U.S. officers bluntly told the author of the Pentagon study that
“ We want a friend in 2020 that will be capable of assisting the U.S.
military to deal with a Chinese threat”, they also admitted that the U.S.
and India “do not discuss this (the ‘chinese threat’) publicly, for such a
rationale  for  the  relationship  will  make  the  task  of  selling  the  Indo-
U.S. relationship to the  Indian public exceedingly difficult.” So various
other justifications are being manufactured and sold through the media.
The Indian rulers are part of these schemings, but they dare not
say it openly. Central Minister for Science and Technology, Kapil Sibbal
has been quoted  saying “ If the U.S. faces a challenge in the 21st
century, it will not be from India, (but) somebody from its neighborhood.
U.S. is cosying up with India because  of the Chinese challenge. He
hastened  to  add  that  he  was  not  speaking  in  an  official  capacity.”
(Aspects of India’s Economy) We should remember that when the British
militarily subjugated the Middle-East countries, including Iraq, during
the First World War, the number of  Indians who gave up their lives (as
soldiers of the Indian army of the British India) far   exceeded that of
the British themselves.

Also, though it is true , that it was General Dyer who personally
ordered firing in the Jalianwala Bagh massacre, we must not forget
that most of the soldiers who actually fired at the people’s gathering
were Indians.

73

forest guard who is making the lives of lakhs of adivasis and of the
poor people a hell and let them live in peace?

On the contrary, MOU’s are there for these forests to be peopled
only by guards for their master’s benefit. In fact, the MOU signed by
our  governments  with  the ADB  as  far  back  as  1996  includes  the
directives  that  there  shall  be  a  ban  on  new  recruitments  in  all
government posts. According to these directives, new  recruitments
shall take place only in the police department.

So, the moot question is, how to turn our forest from hell to heaven
by dealing with the forest guard? As has been described in detail in
the  previous  chapters,  this  hell,  wherein,  people  are  undergoing
immense suffering - suicides by lakhs of peasants, displacement of
crores, unemployment and uncertainty of employment for the whole
new  generation,  heavy  army  deployment  and  associated  atrocities
such as the Armed Forces Special Power Act just to mention a few.
And on other side is the jump from millionaire to billionaire status for a
few, with malls and multiplexes displacing millions of shopkeepers and
urban slum dwellers. So, what is to be done?

All the political parties are working only as a prop of the present
system. Their degeneration has gone so far that, even the common
people do not have any faith in them. The few NGO’s which are taking
up some issues that concern the masses, do not go beyond treating
only the symptoms, which has the effect of serving as a safety valve.
The people of course are fighting. Where the revolutionaries have
their work, people are joining them in large numbers to carry forward
the  struggles.  Where  various  other  mass-organizations  or  social
organizations  are  there,  people  are  fighting  carrying  their  banner.
Where  there  are  no  such  organizations,  people  are  spontaneously
going ahead with the struggles. But how can these struggles lead to a
qualitative break from the shackles of this exploitative system?

Learning from history, from an objective study of our society and
from the revolutionary practice paid for by the blood of the best among
us, we the Maoists are carrying out armed agrarian revolution in the
direction of forming base areas, initially in Dandakaranya, Jharkhand,
Bihar  and Andhra  Pradesh.  Here  Janathana  Sarkar  and  Krantikari

96

involved. By making people into informers they turn brother against
brother,  wife  against  husband  and  children  against  parents. Afzal
wanted to live quietly with his family but the STF wouldn’t allow him.”
  Even the Naga people are demanding the withdrawal of the Naga

Battalion from Bastar.

There is a strong sentiment in Nagaland against deployment of
Naga  forces  to  carry  out  repression  on  the  adivais  of  Bastar  in
Chhattisgarh. There have been many articles, statements condemning
it and demanding withdrawal of the Naga Batallion from Bastar. The
“Morung  Express”  of  Nagaland  has  stated  in  its    editorial  that  “The
recent revelations of atrocities committed by the 9th IRB in Chhattisgarh
has put Naga consciousness to the test.” It also notes that the mere
bringing back of the 9th IRB battalion is not sufficient and “The questions
surrounding the formation of IRB, its training techniques, the chain of
structural  accountability as well as its functional aspects ought to be
critically evaluated. These are necessary in the light of the incidents
that have not only occurred in Chhattisgarh, but also within Nagaland
itself, where there have been a number of reported instances where
IRB personnel, have overstepped their boundary”.

This  editorial  also  observes  that  “using  members  of  an
indigenous community as tools against the aspiration of another
indigenous community is tragic”.

Irked by this public out cry, the DGP Chhattisgarh has come out
with a weird, untenable defense. He has claimed that the Naga Batallion
is  so  popular  in  Chhattisgarh  that  the  people  are  demanding  its
deployment. He also advised the Nagaland government to take legal
action agaist those who are “making  allegations against them. The
North-eastern states, fighting for their liberation have been suffering
under military rule and the Armed Forces Special Powers Act for many
years, so also Kashmir. DGP Rathore poses as a friend of the Naga
people. But his cruel thinking towards not only against the people of
Chhattisgarh, but also towards the people of North East is reflected in
his eagerness towards heavy deployment of para-military all-around.
Frontline (May 20, 2006) reports:

“Director General of Police (DGP) O.P. Rathore agreed that lack

81

of  personnel  was  a  major  handicap.  He  said:  “  We  only  have  six
battalions of CRPF, one battalion of the Naga force and eight battalions
of the State police to man an area of 1,35,000 sq. km. Jammu and
Kashmir has 144 battlions to man an area of 55,00 sq. km (sic- actually
the area is 2,22,000 sq. km.), and Manipur has 48 battalions to man
22,000 sq km.”

Going by these ratios, it appears that the DGP Rathore would
like  to  deploy  about  250  battalions  of  paramilitary  forces  in
Chhattisgarh! But the lesson to be learnt is that despite such heavy
deployment  for  decades  together,  (or  rather  because  of  it),  the
alienation of the people and even the revolt of the people has only
increased.
K.P.S.Gills record in Punjab is soaked in blood
Chhattisgarh government has appointed him Security
Advisor to preside over massacres

Praful  Bidwai  writes:    “Gill  is  a  notorious  votary  of  coercion. A
great myth about him is that he effectively, yet lawfully, crushed the
Punjab insurgency. His  methods were lawless: torturing suspected
militants, harassing their families, deploying unnumbered jeeps and
killing  hundreds  of  those  merely  suspected  to  have  harboured
Khalistanis.  The  National  Human      Rights  Commission  has  just
authenticated the judicial finding that   almost 2,000 people were
cremated without identification in a single   year in Punjab. Clearly
Gill has a lot to answer for. In a more just  society he would be
tried  for  crimes  against  humanity.The  Khalistani  movement  died
not  because  of  Gill’s  brutal  methods  but  because  its  militants
antagonised the people. By relying on the Mizo contigents trained in
counterinsurgency  and  more  generally  on  brute  force,  Gill  will  visit
even more violence than Salwa Judum on the Chhattisgarh people.
He must be stopped in his tracks. Salwa Judum must be disbanded.......
The  Naxalites  have  a  history  of  39  years.  They  represent

something in this society. It won’t do to crush them by force.”

Meanwhile an interesting news appeared in the newspaper Dainik

Bhaskar of August 24th 2006:
82

Indian people.

Apart from this, in our vast and highly complex society with uneven
and  varied  development,  there  are  some  very  specific  features  in
different regions and the method of concrete analysis of the concrete
situation has to be followed.

There were times when the productive forces of human society
were not developed enough to prevent certain calamities. Society was
at  a  loss  when  faced  with  small-pox,  tuberculosis,  gastro-enteritis,
malaria to name only a few. Even kings could not survive these. In
face of a crop failure, societies were often without foodgrains and vast
populations perished without food.

But today, the productive forces have developed to such a level
that, human beings taken together, grow enough foodgrains to sustain
mankind for many years at a stretch. Medical knowledge and technique
are so developed today that the killer diseases of yesterday are easily
curable.  This  qualitative  development  of  the  productive  forces  has
the  associated  factor  of  socialization  of  production,  socialization  of
labor and socialization of knowledge. Whatever we have today, is the
sum total of labour and knowledge, the input of millions of laboring
human beings over the generations. In the production process, there
is  a  phenomenal  socialization,  but  what  about  distribution?  Can  a
handful of persons claim that these materials are their products? When
one simply lights a gas stove with an electronic spark lighter or an
adivasi lights his chulha (earthen stove) with a match-stick, we should
not forget our ancestors who labored so hard to establish fire as an
invention of human society.

Yet,  does  an  expectant  mother  or  the  child  to  be  born  have  a
better chance of surviving childbirth today? Why is it that the astounding
development in the productive forces and in the science of medicine
has not helped, first to reduce and then to (almost) do away with these
mortality rates?

Then to what use are these stupendous strides in the productive
forces  being  put? Aren’t  a  handful  of  monopolies  indulging  in
destructive  production  processes  robbing,  not  only  the  present
population but also the future generations of their share in nature’s
bounty? Can we expect that the state shall quietly withdraw the lone
95

CONCLUSION

Fighting  against  the  imperialist

onslaught, People’s War of Resistance

in Bastar shows the way

To all the oppressed people of India.

There is a popular saying of Muria adivasis of Bastar,
“ Heaven is miles and miles of forest of Mahua trees and hell is

miles and miles of forest of Mahua with one forest guard in it.”

One forest guard by himself does not have the power to make
lives of thousands of people hell. He represents the state power and
there lies his capacity to turn the lives of lakhs of people into hell. This
simple adivasi saying has actually captured the crux of what is the real
nature of state power.

Ira  Jha  in  the  Hindi  daily  Hindustan  (November  23,  2005)  has
observed, “ This much is a fact that the Naxalites have provided the
tribals of Bastar what their elected govt could not provide. Now the
contractor  doesn’t  take  away  their  forest  produce  in  exchange  with
salt,  they  get  justified  wages  for  the  tendu  leaves  they  collect  and
those teachers who only used to make an appearance on salary day,
can  be  seen  teaching  regularly.  Terror  of  the  police  and  the  forest
officials has decreased so much that the graph of crime in Bastar has
fallen drastically.”

Indian state power is in the hands of three classes. On the ground
level there are the feudals like Janardan of Vishnugarh, Baijnath of
Giridih, Mahendra Karma, Rambuvan Kushwaha in Bastar. Then there
are the compradors of India like Tata, Ambani, Essar, Jindal, Birla etc.
On top are the masters of all, the international finance capital, Cargil
and  Monsanto,  Citicorp  and  J.P.  Morgan  Chase,WB, ADB,  and  the
IMF.

Politically and economically, the imperialists reproduce, or say,
consolidate  feudalism which is the main prop on the basis of which
they penetrate the economy and exercise their strangle-hold over the
94

29  Jawans  Flee  from Training.  On  getting  the  news  of  being
posted  in  naxal-affected  Chhattisgarh,  29  Mizo  Jawans  of  Indian
Reserve Police ran away in fear on Monday leaving the training midway.
They have been suspended from the services……. AIG of Mizoram,
Zorammavi said that these jawans not only violated the orders of their
superiors,  they  also  tried  to  take  away  government  guns  and
magazines.”

Massive  clamp  down  to  prevent  8th  March  2005
International  Womens  Day  Celebrations  in  Ambikapur,
Chhattisgarh.

Toiling  women  of  the  region  had  been  organizing  themselves
under the banner of the Mahila Mukti Manch. The previous year they
had observed 8th March at Pratappur and Bargarh and thousands of
rural women had participated  enthusiastically. In 2005, they decided
to celebrate 8th March in the district headquarters - Ambikapur. The
subject  matter  of  the  meeting  was  the  present  situation  of  violence
against women and its relation with Imperialist globalization, and the
situation of Sarguja, where rural poverty forces large-scale migration
of women and girls to the metropolitan cities mostly for work as domestic
help in the houses of the rich and prosperous.

The Collector had granted permission to the Mahila Mukti Manch
to  hold  the  programme  on  a  ground  near  the  Collectorate.  But  it
appears that, realising thousands of women might reach Ambikapur,
the  administration  backed  out  at  the  last  moment.  They  therefore
suddenly shifted the venue to a college ground and held their sarkari
(governmental) 8th programme at the venue alloted to the Mahila Mukti
Manch earlier. Inspite of prior permission for the programme, thousands
of  women,  men  and  children  coming  for  the  program  were  forcibly
stopped  20  to  30  kms  outside Ambikapur.  In  protest  against  this
outrageous  behaviour,  people  conducted  meetings  whereever  they
were stopped.

The town looked as though it was under seige, all the crossings
of the major roads were manned by machine-gun totting policemen.
The police had arrested a woman activist three days earlier, and local
newspapers were briefed by the  administration that a leading woman
Naxalite  had  been  arrested  in  a  village  near Ambikapur  with
83

propaganda  material  for  the  8th  March  programme.  This  story  was
utilized to crack-down on the proposed demonstration.

Police propaganda flashed it as a big success, when they arrested
some women and children engaged in preparation for the Women’s
Day Programme. Whereas those arrested included children - Vyas 12
yrs. Arvind 12, Sushma 11, Rinku 10 and two women - Rekha 32 and
Shankha 25 yrs.

Reacting to this, even the mainstream media had observed that
these  repressive  actions  by  the  state  police  vindicated  the  Maoist
contention that when the state does not tolerate even a peaceful protest
demonstration of the women, what other alternative is there for the
people except armed struggle?

represent “the most outrageous squandering of labour-power and of
the social means of production.”

Under  socialist  reconstruction  in  the  USSR  and  China,  these
questions    were  attempted  to  be  answered  practically.  Particularly,
during  the  great  proletarian  cultural  revolution  in  China,  the  toiling
people  of  China  under    revolutionary  leadership  strove  to  develop
and  carry  forward  these  principles  into  revolutionary  practice  by
numerous lively expreriments. In his article ‘On Ten Major Relations’
Comrade Mao outlined urban-rural relation as one of the fundamental
contradictions to be resolved under socialism.

84

93

An article “Marx’s Vision of Sustainable Human Development” by
Paul Burkett in the Analytical Monthly Review shows how, quite contrary
to the stereotyped vilification by some ‘environmentalists’, not only do
Marxists  deeply  share  the  ecological  concerns  for  sustainable
development,  but  their  class  analysis  of  the  destructive  capitalist
system shows the only way to put an end to this deadly journey of
mankind rushing headlong towards destruction.

“Marx  was  deeply  concerned  with  capitalism’s  tendency  to
“sapping the original sources of all wealth, the soil and the labourer.”
And he repeatedly emphasized the imperative for post-capitalist society
to manage its use of natural conditions responsibly.........

In Marx’s view, the “Association, applied to land, .... reestablishes,
now on a rational basis, no longer mediated by serfdom, overlordship
and the silly sticism of (private) property, the intimate ties of man with
the earth, since the earth ceases to be an object of huckstering.” As
with other means of production, this “common property” in land “does
not mean the restoration of the old original common ownership, but
the institution of a far higher and more developed form of possession
in common.” Marx  does  not  see  this  communal  property  as
conferring a right to overexploit land and other natural conditions in
order to serve the production and consumption needs of the associated
producers. Instead, he forsees an eclipse of capitalist notions of land
ownership by a communal system of user rights and responsibilities.
....... Observing  capitalism’s  ecologically  disruptive  urban
concentrations of industry and population, industrialized agriculture,
and failure to recycle human and livestock wastes, Marx and Engels
early on pointed to the “abolition of the contradiction between town
and  country”  as  “one  of  the  first  conditions  of  communal
life.”.........Marx’s communism would dispense with the waste of natural
resources and labour associated with capitalism’s “ anarchical system
of competiton” and “ vast number of employment ......... in themselves
superfluous.” Many anti- ecological use values could be eliminated or
greatly reduced under a planned system of labour allocation and land
use, among them advertising,the excessive processing and packaging
of food and other goods, planned obsolescence of products, and the
automobiles. All these destructive use values are “indispensable” for
capitalism; but from the standpoint of environmental sustainability they
92

CHAPTER SIX

The People’s War of Resistance in

Bastar  (Chhattisgarh)  and  Jharkhand
To  give  a  vivid  description  and  a  partial  historical
overview

We are beginning with reproducing excerpts of documents already
available, namely “Dandakaranya me Janayudha ki 25vi Varshaganth”
brought out recently by the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee
of the CPI (Maoist) and the book, “Inside MCC Country” authored by a
noted journalist in the year 2003.
In the eye of the storm

“2nd  November,  1980.  That  day  the  soil  of  Garhchiroli  was
drenched in the blood of Com. Peddi Shankar. He was the first martyr
to  sign  in  his  blood,  the  history  of  revolutionary  movement  of
Dandakaranya. Since then more than 300 comrades have laid down
their lives in the last 25 years.

Adivasis who were oppressed for generations came forward in
struggles  in  the  leadership  of  the  revolutionary  party. The  adivasis
living in the forest realized that actually they had no rights over the
forest any more. The slogans, ‘ All rights of forests to the adivasis’ ‘
Land  to  the  tiller’  ‘Democracy  to  the  people’  generated  again  the
consciousness  for  struggle.  Brave  adivasi  heroes  -  Gend  Singh,
Baburao Sarmek, Gunda Dhur, Alluri Sitaram Raju, Komaram Bhimu
had  fought  against  the  British  imperialists  before  the  so  called
independence. The masses of Dandakaranya drew inspiration from
the rich history of their ancestors and the democratic consciousness
born out of these anti-imperialist struggles and resolved to carry on
the present struggles. Now under the banner of red flag, they came
forward for struggle with redoubled confidence.

The  first  battle  was  against  the  forest  officials  who  tormented
them  day  in  and  day  out. Their  atrocities  were  checked. As  far  as
possible,  they  were  chased  out  of  the  forests.  Adivasis  declared,
85

this  forest  is  ours.  On  the  other  hand  battle  began  against  the
comprador bureaucratic bourgeousie, such as Bangore, Thapar, Birla
etc. who were plundering the forest resources and the labour power
of  the  adivasis,  and  also  against  the  big  contractors  and  the
government. Masses got organised around the issue of fair wages.
For  the  first  time  in  the  history,  bamboo  shoots  and Tendu  leaves
bundles  were  heated  up  with  the  strikes  of  the  adivasi  masses.
Employers  expert  in  buying  up  the  revisionist  and  bourgeois  trade
unions, and crushing the workers strikes in the factories, had to bend
before  the  oppressed  adivasi  people.  There  was  no  reply  to  the
question raised by the red flag of the battle that, “can the guns
of  the  police  cut  the  bamboo,  can  the  they  collect  the  tendu
leaves  ?”

The  oppressed  adivasi  masses  struggled  not  only  against  the
government and the capitalists, but they also didn’t spare the notorious
feudal headmen who had carried out begaar, atrocities and oppression
in  the  name  of  social  customs  and  penalties.  Their  hegemony  was
demolished. These elements had earlier had a tremendous hold over
village life because of having a large share of land deeds of the forest
land and in their occupation of land by clearing the forest. To loosen
their stranglehold, their lands were seized in the leadership of the red
flag. About three lakh acres of land were seized. As a result of 25
years  of  struggle  there  is  not  a  single  landless  peasant  in
Dandakaranya.  We  declare  it  with  pride.  Through  their  mass
struggles  the  adivasis  put  an  end  to  the  exploitation  of  the  traders
who used to loot large quantities of precious forest produce in return
for a measure of salt.

The  revolutionary  politics  of  Naxalbari  clearly  declared  for  the
first  time  that  in  this  country,  agrarian  revolution  is  the  only  way  to
solve the problems of the  peasantry and that the peasants have to
organize protracted people’s war. Definitely we can say that for the
oppressed adivasi masses of Dandakaranya the process of organizing
with  the  aim  to  capture  state  power  started  after  1980.  Peasants
organizations  came  into  existence  in  the  villages.  Revolutionary
movement organized not only the men, but the women and children
too.  The  dramatic  changes  brought  about  by  the  revolutionary
movement in the country side could not have been imagined earlier.
86

Just a few of the Heroic Actions of the PLGA in Bastar since

Salwa  Judum  started

June 1, 2005: Asst. Commander of CRPF R K Mishra and 5 other
CRPF personnel were killed when the PLGA  ambushed a
CRPF combing party near Injeram.

September 3, 2005: 22 CRPF and two state police personnel killed

near Padeda village.

Murkinar  raid:  11  police/SPOs  killed  with  49  weapons  and  2700

rounds of ammunition were seized.

(4  AKs,  2  sten  guns,  1  mortar,  14  SLR’s)  22nd
January,2006:
A  militia  squad  attacked  a  vehicle
coming  from  Bijapur  to Avapalli  bank  and  seized  Rs.5
lakhs.

 February 6, 2006: 10  Naga Armed  police  personnel  were  killed
and 8 others injured in a land-mine exploded by the PLGA
in Kothacheruvru near Bhejji.

February 9, 2006: 8 CISF jawans killed in an attack on Hirauli near
Dantewada,  (14  SLRs,  thousands  of  detonators  and
explosives seized).

Is it possible to check the ruthless exploitation of natural resources

with Imperialist rule of Monopoly Capital in place?

New Democracy with the vision of Socialism and Communism is

the only way for the future.

Today, the productive forces have developed to stupendous levels.
Yet, the condition of the majority of human beings on earth is absolutely
miserable.  There  is  the  unnecessary,  irreversible,  irreparable
destruction  of  natures  bounty  under  this  decadent  capitalism  i.e.
imperialism.  In  the  concrete  situation  of  India  today,  this  throws  up
some burning questions. They have to be answered with a vision of
future higher societies.

1. Displacement of crores of peasants, specially the adivasis in

Chhattisgarh, Orissa and Jharkhand and from hundreds of SEZ’s.

 2.Ruthless  exploitation  of  natural  resources  for  destructive
production. E.g. bauxite mining for the military industry led by the US.
91

red army,” Marandi said.”

 From ‘Inside MCC Country’, by journalist Aloke Banerjee
Today every village of Maad has been turned into a
fortress.

The  real  essence  of  people’s  war  is  at  work  in  Bastar  today.
Virtually, every village has been turned into a fortress. To protect their
villages, the masses and the militias have used ingenious methods
like  “boobie  trap”,  pressure  bombs  etc.  to  resist  the  enemy  forces.
People have been hiding their stock of grains in the forests to save it
from loot and destruction by the government forces. In every village,
there are two or three sentry posts that function round the clock. In
some places, pressure bombs have been placed known only to the
villagers.  Utilizing  the  weakness  of  the  mercenary  forces  to  loot
valuables, the villagers put bombs to radio sets which go off on being
turned on. Two salwa judum goons were killed in Chinnapalli village
when they tried to rob a radio. A new ‘Koya Bhumkal Militia ‘ has been
formed which along with revolutionary organizations of peoples power
and the PL GA have been resisting and retaliating the state’s “white
terror.”

Despite severe repression, massive political campaigns are also
being carried out by the revolutionary mass organizations in the entire
Dandakaranya  area. A  campaign  against  patriarchy  in  general  and
the inhuman brutalities of the Salwa Judum goons and paramilitary
forces in particular was taken out through out the area on 8th March
2006, International Women’s Day. Between 20th and 23rd March,2006
commemorating the martyrdom of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, thousands
of  adivasi  peasants  held  meetings  in  hundreds  of  villages  and
distributed pamphlets. In these meetings, the imperialist loot of Bastar-
particularly of iron-ore from Bailadilla by Japan which the NMDC has
extended by another ten years was exposed. On 1st May, a bandh was
observed against Salwa Judum. The central committee of CPI(Maoist)
had also called for road-block programmes against Salwa Judum on
June 14th and 15th in Jharkhand, Bihar, Orissa, Chhattisgarh, Andhra
Pradesh and West Bengal.
90

Hegemony of the revolutionary organizations was established in the
villages.

  In  the  initial  period  of  revolutionary  activity,  these  mass
organizations worked openly. But later on, with increasing repression,
they had to work underground. In the first phase of repression, mass
organizations were crushed temporarily. But the enemy was unable to
crush  them  completely.  Slowly  these  organizations  became  active
again.  By  1995,  60  thousand  peasants,  men  and  women,  were
organized in various mass organizations mainly, Dandakaranya Adivasi
Mazdoor  Kisan  Sangh  (DAKMS),  Krantikari Adivasi  Mahila  Sangh
(KAMS), Adivasi Bal Sangha,(ABS), Chetana Natya Mandali (CNM)
etc. Presently this number has crossed one and a half lakh.

Initially, the responsibility of protecting the organizations from the
feudal headmen was taken up by the cadre of the mass organiztions
bearing lathis. Later the Gram Raksha Dals came into existence. Now,
the basic force the People’s Liberation Gurrilla Army (PLGA), the militias
have  taken  the  responsibility  of  protecting  the  mass  organizations.
They  are  giving  a  fitting  reply  to  the  repressive  forces  of  the  state
wanting  to  crush  these  organizations.  In  the  direct  guidance  of  the
Communist Party of India (Maoist), these organizations are leading
the people of Dandakaranya towards a liberated area. Last 25 years
struggle  has    crystallized  the  power  of  these  organizations  into  the
embryonic  peoples  government  -  Janatana  Sarkar.  This  stage  of
development  of  the  revolutionary  people’s  war  is  illuminating
a  new  path  for  the  oppressed  and  toiling  people....

The Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) (People’s War)
and the Maoist Communist Centre of India were merged on September
21, 2004 forming the Communist Party of India (Maoist). With this, the
revolutionary  movement  of  Dandakaranya  has  become  an  integral
part of the all India revolutionary movement and the march forward
with the aim to form liberated areas in Dandakaranya and Jharkhand,
is giving the enemy sleepless nights …….”

From  “Dandakaranya  me  Janayudha  ki  25vi  Varshaganth”
Mahasweta Devi, noted Bengali authoress has commented after the
historic Jahanabad Jail-Action.

“There is nothing to be surprised. ..I have a good understanding
87

of Jahanabad, Arwal, Bhojpur region. When the land grabber landlords
kill the poor with the guns of Ranvir Sena filled with the ammunition of
the government, then these kind of things will certainly happen. When
the army has the guns and also the police, then how is the people’s
guerrilla  war  surprising?  How  the  poor,  backward  dalits  have  been
oppressed throughout is a matter of history to be written. Be it CPI-ML
or the naxalites, whoever is fighting for the poor, I salute them” People’s
Government.

“……The mansion once belonged to Janardana Singh, the Raja
of Vishnugarh in Hazaribagh. Four years ago, a group of about 100
Maoists, all belonging to the MCCI, accompanied by local villagers,
had raided the house and had blasted it off with dymanite, Singh and
his family had sensed trouble and had already fled. All the 3900 acres
of land that belonged to him was then distributed among the villagers.
About 30 kilometres away at Madhgopali in Giridih, once stood a similar
mansion that belonged to Baijnath Barnwal, the local landlord. Here
the  dynamite  of  the  MCC  and  the  wrath  of  the  people  against  the
landlord were even stronger. So, nothing remains of the house now
and 600 acres of his land was also distributed among the villagers.

Girls  who  had  the  misfortune  of  attracting  his  attention  had  to
spend nights with the landlord. That was the rule. No one dared to
protest because he was  ruthless,” reminisced 70 year old Shiv Mahto
(name changed) of Marmu village in Vishnugarh.” He would pick any
girl of his choice and no one could escape his lust,” Mahto said. It is
this kind of rapid growth of the popularity, influence and authority of
the  KKC’s  (  Krantikari  Kisan  Committee)  which  is  giving  the  govt
sleepless nights. Of late, the institutions built by the KKC – even the
schools and dams - have been identified as targets by the police. The
intention  of  the  govt.  is  to  create  panic  among  the  villagers  and
discourage them from having any association with the KKC, and, on
the other hand, to lure them back to the govt. by promising relief. So
far, the results have been just the opposite.

One early morning in June last year, a large contigent of police
swooped down at Chowk in Palamau. Their aim was to pull down a
dam. The reason: the dam was built by the MCCI. Over 200 villagers
were arrested for participating in an “extremist project.” A month later,
88

the police undertook two similar operations, first in Tutki in Chatra and
then  in  Jeridih  in  Giridih.  Here  too,  villagers  were  arrested  for
participating in MCCI-run developmental projects.

In May 2001, Menka primary school at Manika in Palamau was
destroyed by the police. Vinod Behari Mahto primary school in Giridih
was  also  bulldozed  in  the  same  month.  The  charges  against  both
were the same. They were being run by the MCCI.

“ It is true that we were running these schools. They have been
rebuilt and we are still running them. But look at the way the government
is destroying even the schools now. We are surely not teaching the
students  the  art  of  bomb-making,“  wondered  Krantikari  Kisan
Committee leader Amaresh.

 Party units, comprising the commander, deputy commander, the
section  commander  and  the  political  commissar,  operate  in  each
platoon.  Each  platoon  party  committee  reports  directly  to  the  zonal
committee  of  the  MCCI.  The  party  at  present  has  16  platoons  in
Jharkhand. A company has also been raised by merging three platoons
as  a  test  case. All  the  platoon  members  are  obviously  armed  with
weapons seized from the police and the CRPF. A platoon has guns,
rifles, SLRs, carbines, sten gun, modern Insas rifles and now even
mortars and mines. Some platoons in Jharkhand have even seized
LMGs from the police.

“We  do  not  purchase  large  weapons.  We  always  snatch  them
from  the  police,”  informed  Bihar-Jharkhand-Bengal  special  area
committee member Marandi. “ Earlier we only had .303 because that
was the only weapon the police had. Now we have SLR’s, sten guns,
LMGs and even mortars. Of late, the police have been given AK series
rifles. So we will have them too. The more the police use sophisticated
arms, the better for us.” Marandi said with a smile.The platoon is the
army of the alternative government the MCC is trying to give shape to,
Marandi explained. Apart from engaging the police in battle, the platoon
maintain order in the area and participate in political campaigns. They
also help villagers in major constructions such as the building of dams
and roads and digging of ponds. Apart from the platoons, the MCCI
also  raises  local  regular  guerrilla  squads  and  village  level  people’s
militia on a regular basis. “ You can’t have socialism unless you have a
89

the ground and suspending all fundamental rights of the people. In
just  the  three  states  Chattisgarh,  Jharkhand  and  Orissa  over  three
lakh  crores  of  rupees  are  likely  to  be  pumped  in  to  extract  several
times more wealth to fill the coffers of these steel and aluminium barons
of India and imperialist countries. And the so-called adivasi leaders
like Karma expect fat commissions and bribes from their masters for
clearing the areas of Maoists. This is the logic behind salwa judum.
We haven’t placed a blanket ban on all kinds of roads and railway
lines. We oppose   the laying of only those roads and railway lines that
are meant for looting the wealth from the region and for enemy troop
movement. It is an open secret that the railway line from Waltair to
Kirandul  was  meant  for  looting  the  raw  material  from  Bastar  to  the
imperialist  countries  like  Japan  just  as  the  British  did  during  their
colonial rule. The proposed line from Raoghat to Jagdalpur is meant
for the same purpose. Would you, as enlightened intellectuals support
these  mega-development  projects  that  result  in  underdevelopment
and misery for the vast masses?

We support the just demand of the adivasis that the raw materials
of the region belong to them, that they should not be displaced from
their  homes  due  to  so-called  development  projects  such  as  mines
and steel plants, and that roads and railway lines should not be laid
for  looting  the  wealth  from  the  region.  We  stand  in  the  forefront  of
their struggle against these huge projects and the roads and railway
lines meant for draining the wealth from the adivasi areas. We expect
support from democratic   intellectuals like you to prevent wealth from
flowing out of the adivasi regions and from our country itself. We have
our own model of development which you can see in the areas where
we have established the real democratic rule of the masses. You know
very well that most of the development funds do not reach the really
needy. So much about the story of development.

Even  more  amusing  is  the  charge  against  us  that  we  prevent
people from voting. The very same marauders who trample underfoot
all the fundamental rights of the people guaranteed by our so-called
Constitution,  lament  when  the  Maoists  take  up  election  boycott
campaign. Here we wish to make it clear that people have not only the
right to vote but also the right to boycott. But this right is snatched
112

Kisan  Committee  are  the  rudimentary  organs  of  the  people’s  new
democratic  state,  which  is  a  concrete  alternative  to  the  present
exploitative and unbearable system.

At present, the vicious Salwa Judum military campaign is being
carried out by the Indian state with a clearly expressed intention to
target the adivasi masses, who are the main support base of the Maoists
as has been demonstrated earlier. It is very much in fashion for the
officials associated with the repressive measures in Bastar to talk about
taking  the  water  (people)  away  from  the  fish  (  the  Maoists).  This
establishes  one  thing  for  sure,  which  is  that  if  they  are  having  to
strategise and take such large-scale and cruel methods to separate
the two, it shows that the party is deeply integrated with the people.
There are a number of well intentioned intellectuals and citizens,
who when confronted with the grave situation start thinking, “ aren’t
the people becoming victims in the fight between the state and the
Maoists? “ Another related question that crops up is about the violent
means adopted by the Maoists and carrying it further they ask whether
by “ taking up armed struggle, are you not inviting greater repression?”
These  are  serious  questions  and  we  are  accountable  to  the
people  on  these  counts. As  seen  earlier,  we  find  the  brutal  fascist
state ‘emptying the water’ to ‘kill the fish’. In this context, the people
and the party are integrated as a single whole and it is not possible to
separate the two however much the commanders take their lessons
from their US experts. The state is trying to separate the two physically
or militarily. But when our well-meaning intellectuals counter pose the
two, they are doing the same thing theoretically.

We have about one and a half lakh members in our revolutionary
mass organizations in Bastar. The DGP Rathore says there are 45-50
thousand Maoist sangham members. Who are the Maoists? Have they
fallen from the sky? Aren’t they the children of the growing people’s
struggle against this unjust and  intolerable system?

Today there is a situation of fascist onslaught in Bastar akin to
the invasion of an army of occupation. The State is pressing into service
spies,  mercenaries  and  feudal  bloodsuckers  in  cruel  counter
insurgency tactics. The US imperialists’ strategies of ‘ relocation’ and ‘

97

scorched earth policy’ are being applied with a vengence to facilitate
the loot of mineral resources for compradors. And yet the the state
officials are on record admitting that after the initiation of the Salwa
Judum, “ there has been a spurt in the Maoist recruitment”. In fact, in
this  situation  of  intensification  of  war,  the  adivasi  people  under  the
revolutionary leadership, have formed a new “Koya Bhoomkal Militia”
and are putting up a determined resistance against the state.

Hundreds  of  villages  sought  to  be  emptied  or  starved  are
heroically resisting en masse, they are preferring to join the war of
resistance  rather  than  suffer  subjugation  silently.  Hundred  of  the
adivasis  are  daring  to  escape  from  the  state  concentration  camps.
Even  during  incidents  like  the  attack  on  Errabore  or  the  land-mine
killing  Pakhanjor  traders,  people  are  venting  their  rage  against
Mahendra Karma, DGP Rathore, and the Home Minister Netam. Entire
villages are bravely resisting the land aquistion for the Tata and Essar
steel plants. Thousands of adivasis protested at Kondagaon against
molestation  of  an  adivasi  woman  by  the  SAF  jawans.  Traders  of
Dornapal  carried  out  a  bandh  on  16th  October  2006  protesting  the
cold-blooded murder of a fellow trader by the Naga jawans. Even the
well managed media admits about a rally taken out in Dantewada on
14th November 2006 that :

“More than 50,000 villagers came walking 150 to 200 km to say
that they do not want Salwa Judum. ……The villagers also raised the
slogans against Mahendra Karma and also opposed Tata and Essar
in Bastar”

When the police is acting like an occupation army, ousting the
tribals of Bastar from their homes and lands, left and right, the urgent
need  is  to  strengthen  the  resistance  against  this  bloody  campaign.
And our intellectual friends still feel that the adivasis are “being ground
between two stones”?

No doubt the State and the ruling classes countinuously devise
methods  -both  savage  and  subtle,  to  create  divisions  among  the
people, and even inflict serious losses on the struggling people from
time to time. If the Salwa Judum or the Sendra or the SPO’s are one
face  of  this  policy,  then  the  Panchayat  Elections  or  the  Forest
Protection Committees or the aid agencies are the other. However,
98

the children rather than seeing it in a larger perspective affecting the
lives of the entire people. We are curious to hear what you would say
of  hundreds  of  other  villages  which  do  not  have  schools  although
“Maoist threat” does not exist in those villages? It is for you to ponder
over whether we are in any way responsible for the lack of education
to the children of Dantewara.   6. Another white lie doing the rounds
ever since the Maoist movement began to be recognised by a significant
section  of  the  people  as  the  only  alternative  to  solve  their  basic
problems, is that we are against development and that we obstruct
people  from  exercising  their  right  to  vote  and  to  participate  in
government-sponsored  development  works.  Nothing  can  be  farther
from truth. We were surprised to see that you too had fallen prey to
this  vicious  disinformation  campaign  unleashed  by  the  government
and the media controlled by the big moneybags. You wrote: “Not all
the lack of development can be blamed on the government People
have a right to vote, to work on road construction schemes, to access
panchayat money, all of which your party has opposed.”

Is  it  true  that  we  are  in  anyway  responsible  for  lack  of
development? We had never, I repeat never, opposed any schemes
of the government if those really helped in ameliorating the lives of
the people. You can verify this assertion of ours through  independent
investigation  and  not  based  on  complaints  from  those  bigwigs  like
Mahendra Karma and his agents among the adivasis and the non-
adivasi exploiters who feel deprived of the funds that would flow into
their pockets if the Maoists were not present.

Our  party  spokesperson  had  already  explained  what  model  of
development  our  Party  stands  for  which  has  been  published  in  the
EPW and hence I will not elaborate much on this aspect. The main
point is that we oppose any development that plays havoc with the
lives of the people. You might have known how an Essar and a Tata
managed  to  get  the  consent  of  the  adivasis  by  holding  fake  gram
sabhas at gun point (see Down to Earth October 31, 2006). There is
immense wealth in the areas inhabited by adivasis from Jharkhand to
AP and all the big guns have their greedy eyes fixed on this wealth.
Hence  they  leave  no  stone  upturned  to  grab  this  wealth  even  if  it
means  massacring  the  indigenous  people,  razing  entire  villages  to

111

forests and have to arm themselves for their self-defence. When the
enemy  is  erasing  every  norm  of  international  law,  the      oppressed
people have the full right to arm themselves and fight. Making a fuss
over age makes no meaning in a situation where the enemies of the
people are targeting children too without any mercy. If the boys and
girls do not do resist with arms they will be eliminated completely. The
intellectuals of the civil society should understand this most inhumane
and  cruel  situation  created  by  the  enemy  and  take  the  side  of  the
people instead of pushing them more onto the defensive by raising all
sorts of idealistic objections.

As  for  destroying  schools  used  by  the  CRPF  as  their  camps,
neither the people nor our Party think it is wrong. The schools, once
they  are  occupied  by  these  forces,  are  transformed  into  torture
chambers and concentration camps and there is no hope that they
will once again be used as schools in the near future. Moreover, in
many villages that did not have a school for the past six decades after
the so-called Independence, new RCC school buildings are now coming
up  on  a  war  footing  for  providing  the  needed  infrastructure  for  the
‘carpet security system’. People living in the villages know for what
purpose these buildings are being built. That is why they have decided
to destroy them and our Party fully stands by the people.

Education of the adivasis is not affected by destruction of school
buildings used by the security forces but by the destruction of entire
villages (upto 900 villages had been uprooted since June 2005) by
the state police, para-military forces and salwa judum goondas with
active  police  support.  In  mid-July  thousands  of  students  whose
education was disturbed by salwa judum goondas came into the streets
demanding education and gave slogans against police-judum gangs
for depriving them of education. We must all demand the immediate
withdrawal  of  all  police-CRPF  camps  from  schools  and  colleges  in
villages  and  towns,  stop  the  destruction  of  villages  and  killing  of
teachers and students by judum goons, allow people to go back to
their villages from the so-called rehabilitation centres, and to provide
all facilities for education. While destruction of school buildings had
taken place in a few villages where people’s very existence has become
a question mark you still think that this is affecting the   education of

110

the events in Bastar confirm our firm strategic understanding that the
present ruthlessly exploitative system, backed by brutal repression is
so  structured  that  it  can  only  feul  the  urge  of  vast  sections  of  the
people to struggle for their very survival. Such divisions can not stop
the  people  for  long  from  advancing  the  struggle  and  swelling  the
revolutionary ranks. The stage of ‘base area’ towards which our party
is determinedly advancing, is not merely a territorial concept, but rather
a concept of creating the conditions to qualitatively release the political
initiative of broad masses of the people; to create organs of people’s
political power; and destroy the state’s capacity to either “dangle the
carrot” or “wield the stick”.

The central issue, therefore in resolving these kind of questions
is the understanding about State power, and also the understanding
that the vast masses of toiling people are the creators of history. Of
course the lackeys of finance capital had long ago pronounced the
end of history. Yes, it is the people who have the capacity to smash
this hellish semi-feudal, semi-colonial state under the grip of finance
capital and carry forward the march of history. The CPI(Maoist) not
only has the supreme confidence in the people but also believes that
at this stage of development of productive forces, it is the period of
conscious history making.

Intellectuals  of  Independent  Citizens  Initiative  have  expressed,
“Even if your party builds a thousand irrigation ponds and runs schools,
can you ever replace the resources that the government has, and to
which the people have a right?”

It is true that the resources are there and the people’s rights too
are there written in the words of the constitution like ‘sovereignty’ and
‘socialism’ But then, there is that lone forest guard turning all the visions
of entitlements into hell. The state as an instrument of class rule, of
oppression,  for  exploiters  to  use  against  the  people  is  present
throughout. That is how the schools of the state become the barracks
of  the  CRPF  and  the  schools  built  by  the  revolutionary  people  are
bulldozed by the state.

Even at the cost of repitition, it is proper to narrate the instance
of  Lingo,  Bodo,  Paiku,  Mara  and  Rupa,  five  poor  adivasis  of
Dantewada who had their land with valuable timber trees. Mahendra
99

Karma along with Gupta, Surana and Awasthi, in collusion with the
government officials looted 16 lakh rupees from these poor adivasis
and  paid  only  1.5  lakh  out  of  17.5  lakh  due  to  them.  The  highest
authorities of our country - the Supreme Court, Lokayukta and CBI
took cognizance of the case but nothing came out of it. People are
suffering every day, every hour, every minute, from this instrument of
oppression of the exploiting classes - the state power. So even if the
government has enormous resources, the people have no access to
these. Notwithstanding the constitution and the elections, this state,
this government, the judiciary,  legislature and the executive are the
very instruments to deny the people these resources, this state has to
be  smashed  and  a  new  democratic  state  of  the  people  has  to  be
established. It is only then that the resources, created by the labour of
the toiling masses and to which their right is inalienable, will indeed be
theirs.

Today  the  vast  masses,  the  toiling  people  of  India  are  reeling
under  devastating  onslaught  of  imperialist  policies  implemented
through various agencies particularly the US-India CEO Forum. Tata
as co-chairman has been anointed to lead on behalf of the imperialist
masters the policy to loot the rich mineral resources and cheap labor
in Chhattisgarh, Orissa and Jharkhand. Thus a fierce battle is raging
in  the  tribal  areas  as  the  adivasi  people  resist  displacement  and
dispossession and the state unleashes brutal repression to facilitate
the  corporate loot. This is at the centre of the corporate debate, as
‘The Guardian’ had noted.

Thus  Kalinga  Nagar,  Kashipur,  Lanjhigarh,  Lohajimi,  Ulijhari,

Singbhum, Singur…..and Bastar.

And today, the people’s war in Bastar, is where the most heroic
resistance is being put up. Just like the brave resistance of the Iraqi
people  against  the  US  army  occupation  for  oil  and  hegemony,  the
people  of  Bastar  in  the  leadership  of  CPI(Maoist)  are  resisting  the
hidden imperialist war for loot .They are at the very forefront of the
battle. Their struggle shows the way for the people of India.

  In  1967,  making  a  clear  theoretical  analysis  of  the  rotten
exploitative  and  brutally  repressive  semi-feudal  semi-colonial  State,
making a decisive break with revisionism, and placing a firm step on
100

4. It is a baseless allegation that we had laid mines all over. People,
to defend their very existence, are compelled to plant mines here and
there in order to check the influx of hundreds of state forces and SJ
goons who are creating a reign of terror in the villages. Neither is this
indiscriminate or on an extensive scale. We also do not believe we
can prevent salwa judum by using mines. We are with the world people
in  condemning  the  use  of  mines  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass
destruction that create more “collateral damage” to borrow the phrase
from the greatest terrorist of our time, George Bush Jr., and we stand
for total ban of these weapons. If the indiscriminate use of grenades,
mortars and aerial bombing by the state’s forces which are deployed
in thousands in Dantewara-Bastar region killing or wounding hundreds
of people is stopped then there is no need for us to use this weapon.
We believe that it is people, and people alone, who can smash
salwa  judum  through  mass  political  movements  and  mass  armed
retaliation. Weapons are used by our PLGA and the people’s militia
as they have to confront an enemy armed with the deadliest of weapons
that are used for suppressing the just and peaceful movements of the
people. In fact it is the salwa judum and the large-scale atrocities by
the  police  and  para-military  forces  that  had  led  the  people  to  arm
themselves en masse and build armed defence system for their self-
defence. They have every right to defend themselves with whatever
kinds of weapons available.

  5. As regards training minors under 18 years in the use of arms,
we  wish  to  make  it  clear  that  our  policy  and  the  PLGA  constitution
stipulate that no one should be taken into the army without attaining
16 years of age. And this age limit is strictly followed while recruiting.
In  the  specific  conditions  prevailing  in  the  war  zone  children  attain
mental and political maturity by the time they complete 16 because
they are directly or indirectly involved in the revolutionary activity from
their very childhood. They receive basic education and political training
early in their lives and have organisational experience as members of
balala sangham (children’s associations).

But now the enemy has changed the entire situation in this region
by pursuing a policy of “kill all, burn all, destroy all” not sparing even
children and old people who are  forced to flee the villages and stay in
109

examine the so-called justice system that is being implemented by the
state in Dantewara-Bastar region or anywhere in our country for that
matter. Does due process mean engaging professional lawyers (who
turn out very often to be unethical professional liars) to prove one’s
crime (which is the rarest thing that can happen in our country if you
see  real-life  criminals  occupying  highest  positions  of  power  while
hundreds  of  thousands  of  innocent  languish  in  jails  without  trial  for
years without end). When it is a universally known fact that nine out of
ten cases do not get justice through the so-called courts of law why
should  you  find fault with people when they themselves punish the
culprits as in the Jan adalats held under the leadership of our Party?
The very fact that out of the 57 people taken away by the jan militia
led by our PLGA from the concentration camp,   44 of them were let off
after due investigation of their deeds speaks of the fairness of the jan
adalats unlike the so-called courts of law that let off the real culprits
and throw the innocents for long years into jails. Moreover, if we see
our past history you will find that several times we had let off even
police officers after detaining them for days when their crimes were
not proved in the investigation. Many anti-social elements were simply
censured and let off. It is only the most notorious anti-people criminal-
lumpen elements and proven agents of the enemy who were given
the highest punishment of death.

In principle, we are against death penalty and our new system
that would evolve after the seizure of power will scrap death sentence.
But now the oppressed people and the revolutionaries are compelled
to resort to it for our defence as even our very survival is at stake if
proven  counter-revolutionaries  are  allowed  to  create  havoc  with
people’s lives and pass on information about our movements to the
police. And as for evidence let me tell you that the excellent evidence
collected by us—recorded cassettes of the entire investigation in the
jan adalat which we had placed by the side of the dead bodies for the
world to know — had been taken away by the police. We request you
to bring pressure on the government and also ask the courts to direct
the police to produce the cassettes. That would answer your question
about evidence for due   process. If you are ready to collect live evidence
then  thousands  of  people  in  Dantewara  are  prepared  to  place  the
facts before you whenever you come.
108

the  path  of  agrarian  revolution  through  protracted  people’s  war  the
glorious  Naxalbari  movement  had  been  initiated  with  the  slogan
“Naxalbari shows the way.” As the movement of the CPI (Maoist) has
determinedly advanced through countless sacrifices over the past four
decades, revolutionary practice has established that indeed “Naxalbari
is the only path”.

We end this discussion with a call to the people of this country to
steadfastly stand by the people of Bastar and the revolutionaries in
their heroic people’s war of resistance against the genocidal onslaught
of  the  Indian  State. And  to  support  the  determined  struggles  of  the
revolutionary  masses  in  Jharkhand,  Bihar,  West  Bengal, Andhra
Pradesh, Orissa and all over India.

We also call upon the people to turn this battle into a war of the
oppressed  people  of  the  world  to  unitedly  uproot  the  imperialist
powers  along  with  their  lackeys  and  indeed  dig  their  grave  in
the soil of Asia!

101

APPENDIX - 1

Letter of the General Secretary,
CPI(Maoist) to the Members of the

Independent Citizens’ Initiative

To
The  Members,
Independent  Citizens’  Initiative

Dear  Friends,
I  received  the  letter  sent  by  six  prominent  personalities  of  the
Independent Citizens Initiative who had visited Dantewara district of
Chattisgarh on a fact finding mission in last May. I could not ascertain
when  the  letter  was  actually  sent  as  it  did  not  bear  any  date  and  I
could get hold of it only recently. On behalf of our Party I thank you all
for your letter and the responsible attitude and genuine desire shown
by you to put an end to the armed conflict in Dantewara between the
oppressed adivasis on the one hand and the state-sponsored salwa
judum,  state  police  and  central  para-military  forces  on  the  other.  I
convey  my  apologies  to  you  for  the  long  delay  in  sending  a  reply,
whatever are the reasons on our side.

Our Party appreciates the serious efforts made by you in your
genuine quest for finding a resolution to the tragic conflict that had
suddenly flared up in Dantewara since June 2005 and has taken over
400 lives until now. It is indeed heartening to all of us waging a just war
for the liberation of the most oppressed sections of the Indian society
to see democratic intellectuals like you seeking to explore the truth
and place it before the world. There are some good articles written by
some of you such as the one in The Hindu by Sri EAS Sharma, which
made attempts to present the truth in a more objective manner. He
had correctly analysed the origin and nature of salwa judum in sharp
contrast to the barrage of false propaganda that it is a  spontaneous
movement and an uprising against the Maoists: “It is certainly not a
“peoples’  movement”  as  it  has  been  made  out  to  be.  It  is  a  State-

102

peace. To accuse us of having a casual attitude towards taking away
life is a myth fabricated by the bourgeois media. Our society including
the sharpest critics of the ruling classes are bound to be influenced at
least to some extent by this subtle propaganda. With greater care and
more meticulous planning we assure you that we shall strive to avoid
such unfortunate incidents in future.

We are as much grieved as you when policemen are killed in our
ambushes and raids. We made several appeals to the policemen and
their families not to kill innocent people or launch attacks on our cadre.
We had issued leaflets appealing the Naga battalion jawans, CRPF
jawans to defy orders from their superiors and to desist from attacks.
We have composed a number of songs describing the plight of poor
and unemployed youth who are forced to join police force due to lack
of alternative employment. Whenever we attack the police we try to
minimise  bloodshed.  We  had  never  killed  any  policeman  who
surrendered. We do not harbour any anger towards ordinary policemen
but would anyone expect us to remain silent when people are tortured,
killed, women are raped, houses and property destroyed by the police-
para-military-salwa judum goondas? We stand for the defence of the
people’s  rights  and  it  is  for  this  reason  we  are  compelled  to  attack
those who are snatching away people’s right to live. You would not
have suggested a reconsideration of the strategy of people’s war itself
just because a few mistakes were committed had you known why; in
the first place, we had taken up arms.

3. Regarding the Jan adalat in Manikonta village, the first point
we would like to place  before you is that those who were punished
were not villagers as you describe them but were paid SPOs and SJ
goons who had committed terrible atrocities on the people in the name
of  salwa  judum. A  retribution  of  that  order  is  a  necessity  to  control
these goons. Common people, generally speaking, do not go to the
extent of killing those who had committed crimes. The fact that hundreds
of people who were present in the Jan adalat resorted to this extreme
measure  shows  the  pent-up  anger  and  righteous  indignation  of  the
people intimidated since June 2005 without a let up.

You had questioned for evidence that due process was followed
in the Jan adalats. Before such a question is placed we request you to
107

and created a conducive atmosphere for dialogue by withdrawing the
police and para-military camps from the countryside, punish the guilty
officers   responsible for murders and rapes, and so on.

Today, along with the above demands, other demands such as:
immediate disbanding of salwa judum, punishment to the perpetrators
of atrocities on the people,    suspension of the Public Security Act,
2006, removing obstructions on adivasis who want to go back to their
villages from the so-called relief camps have also come to the fore. Is
there  any  justness  in  asking  us  to  one-sidedly  declare  a  cease-fire
and go for dialogue without the government first creating a conducive
atmosphere? The talks in AP in 2004 had exposed the hypocrisy and
heinous game plans of the Indian ruling classes when the government
refused  to  extend  the  cease-fire,  commenced  brutal  attacks  and
created conditions which made second round of talks impossible under
YSR’s Congress regime. These bitter lessons have naturally become
a  deterrent  for  talks  anywhere  in  the  country. To  ask  us  to  declare
cease-fire even as the exploiting classes continue their   cruel barbaric
campaign against the people means asking us to commit suicide.    It
is like the poor lamb believing the butcher. We appeal to you to think
over the   dangerous implications of your call for a cease-fire from our
side in today’s conditions.

2. You conveyed your worry at our “casual attitude towards taking
away life”. Deaths of members of the marriage party returning from
Gadchiroli or of the traders in Kanker were unfortunate incidents that
occurred due to mistaken identity. No revolutionary would ever think
of committing such attacks on innocent people. * Social scientists and
investigative journalists do not stop at mere facts that happen. They
would  go  into  the  causes  behind  these  incidents,  the  history  and
ideology of those who committed such acts, and the overall prevalent
atmosphere  that  triggered  such  incidents.  Such  incidents  are
exceptions in our long-drawn revolutionary struggle spanning over 25
years in Dandakaranya. Our ideology and politics teach us to protect
the people as the pupil of our eyes. We value life and peace as no
other party or even a humanist does. It is our love and commitment to
the people that had drawn us away from our homes and families and
goads us on to sacrifice our lives so as the vast majority can live in

106

sponsored  campaign  in  which  unsuspecting Adivasis  are  used  as
ammunition in a war that will serve the private interests of a few.” He
had also traced the exploitation of the adivasis by the non-tribal trader-
contractor nexus: “For decades, unethical land-grabbers, wily traders,
and  exploitative contractors, all non-tribals, have dominated the lives
of t he Adivasis in this area, undeterred.”

I would also make it crystal-clear at the outset that just as you do,
our Party too believes “that the well-being and all-round development
of  the  adivasis  in  Dantewada  and  elsewhere  should  be  the  central
theme of any discussion or effort that impacts their lives, either directly
or indirectly.” However, what we do not believe, unlike you, is “that the
defence of the rights of the adivasis can be ensured more effectively
through  political,  non-violent  and  open  means,  rather  than  through
armed  struggle.”  And  it  is  precisely  these  diametrically  opposite
ideological-political beliefs by our respective sides regarding the means
to be adopted to defend the rights of the adivasis that has led to two
differing    viewpoints  in  grasping  the  reality  of  the  class  war  in
Dantewara. And it is these differing perceptions, outlooks and class
biases that are coming in the way of arriving at a correct solution to
the ongoing conflict, or what could be more correctly described as a
war  between  the  revolutionary  forces  versus  counter-revolutionary
forces, that is going on not only in Dantewara but in various parts of
the country. Can you show us one instance from the pages of Indian
history  where  the  rights  of  the  adivasis  were  ensured  through  non-
violent and open means? And not just in India but anywhere in the
word for that matter? What have the tribals of Kalinganagar received
for their peaceful protest against Tata Steel?

You have placed nine questions before our Party. In brief, these
are: lack of response from our Party to your call for a dialogue with the
government and  declaration of cease-fire; our “casual attitude towards
taking life”; the legitimacy of jan adalates like the one held in Manikonta;
that our Party is placing mines “all over”; that we are training minors
under 18 in the use of arms and destroying schools used by the CRPF,
our Party’s  opposition to the right to vote, road construction and access
to  government  funds  for      development;  putting  people  to  risk  and
inviting greater repression by resorting to armed struggle; subordinating

103

the interests of the people of Bastar and Dantewara to our wider goal
of capture of state power; and showing no distinction between civilians
and   combatants and so on.

Before answering these questions, the tenor and tone of which
unmistakably  betray  the  mind  and  attitude  of  the  liberal  democratic
intelligentsia, I wish to ask you one straight question: How does one
get to know the truth from a plethora of facts? Can you say with full
confidence that your perception of the reality in Dantewara is not tainted
by your ideological biases against the Maoist movement and violent
revolution? Is it possible for anyone, even if one claims to be a neutral
or  impartial  intellectual,  to  analyse  facts  and  arrive  at  conclusions
correctly if he/she has an inherent aversion for armed struggle?

We know that our answers will not satisfy you. How is it possible
when  we  both  have  different  ideological  and  political  perceptions
towards the means to be adopted to bring the oppressed out of their
miserable conditions of existence? There is no level playing field in
the merciless class war between the cruelly exploited, brutally oppressed
majority  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  fatty  upper  five  per  cent  of  our
society bulging at the expense of the hundreds of millions of poor on
the  other.  In  a  class-divided  society  there  cannot  be  any  absolute
truth.  The  truth  of  the  oppressed  is  different  from  the  truth  of  the
oppressor. This has been true right from the time of Spartacus and
the unsung slave heroes who waged struggle against slavery. Either
you  were  with  the  slaves,  in  which  case  Spartacus  and  the  rebels
represented a just cause and truth, or you were with the slave owners
for whom the revolts were merely the unjust acts of the slaves who
had strayed from their duty of serving their masters. Likewise if Bhagat
Singh was a hero for the Indian people he was the greatest terrorist
and villain for the British colonialists.

In class conflicts, unlike in ordinary sport, it is impossible to have
an impartial referee who cries foul whenever there is a violation of the
rules  by  either  side.  For  class  war  is  no  game  played  out  between
equals based on rules that apply to both sides equally. It is an unequal
war between the mighty militarised state that stands in defence of the
propertied classes and their “right” to exploit the majority at will, and
the  vast  majority  of  the  wretched  of  the  earth—hungry,  homeless,
104

emaciated, docile, helpless masses—who, in the eyes of the ruling
elites, are not much distinct from the slaves of bygone millennia. Rules
are preset by these very same exploiters through their Constitution
with  enough  provisions  for  violating  the  same.  Those  who  imagine
themselves  to  be  impartial  referees  in  class  war  and  try  to  set  the
rules equally for both sides will ultimately end up as apologists for the
oppressors,  in  spite  of  their  good  intentions  and  sincere  attitude.
Anyone who thinks that he/she is being impartial in a class-divided
society is only a victim of his/her fanciful imagination.

You  have  condemned  both  types  of  violence,  i.e.,  violence
unleashed by the state and salwa judum goons at the behest of the
imperialist  Macs,      big  corporate  houses  like  Essar  and  Tata,
unscrupulous traders, contractors,    as well as collaborationist adivasis
leaders  who  had  become  part  of  the  ruling    elites,  on  awakened
adivasis masses who are struggling for their just rights and liberation
under  the  leadership  of  our  Party  on  one  hand,  and  the  legitimate
revolutionary violence resorted to by the oppressed adivasis on the
other. You held both sides   responsible for the unfortunate situation.
How can you equate the violence of the oppressor with the legitimate
violent  response  of  the  voiceless  oppressed?  Whom  would  such  a
stand  help  ultimately?  Would  it  not  provide  added  strength  to  the
oppressors and help perpetuate their domination? All these have to
be pondered over by democratic-minded intellectuals. We sincerely
appeal to you to stand more firmly on the side of the oppressed and
then it will not be much difficult to find answers to most of the seemingly
perplexing questions.

Now we shall try to answer your points very briefly:
1. You had called on us to declare a cease-fire and enter into a
dialogue with the government. You were dismayed that we had not
responded to your call and had even escalated the violence. You also
queried whether we are prepared for a dialogue? When the enemies
of  the  people  have  a  single  agenda  of  suppressing  the  struggling
masses  through  ever-increasing  brute  force,  where  does  dialogue
come in? In fact, ever since 1998 we had always been responding
positively  for  a  dialogue  on  the  issues  of  the  people  provided  the
government cried a halt to its repression and   oppression of adivasis
105

away at gunpoint by the rulers who deploy huge contingents of central
forces to intimidate and force people against their will to vote for their
very oppressors. This has been most conspicuous in AP where people
are threatened with dire consequences if they dare to boycott and, in
several instances, are even pulled out of their houses on the polling
day and brought to the booths. During the last elections in 2003 and
2004 in Chattisgarh helicopters were used to create terror and huge
para-military force was deployed in the name of preventing the Maoists
from foiling the elections. Just as other political parties have the right
to campaign for electing them to power the CPI (Maoist) too has the
right  to  call  upon  the  people  to  boycott  the  elections  that  are  only
meant to suppress them. Never was force used by our Party to prevent
people from exercising their franchise. This is easily verifiable from
the people in our areas of armed struggle.

Boycott  of  election  is  a  political  tactic  of  our  party  to  mobilize,
organize and rouse the oppressed masses against the rotten system
and to make them realise the necessity to destroy it through people’s
war.  It  is  only  then  that  election  of  a  genuine  people’s  democratic
government becomes possible. With this aim, under our party leadership
and with the protection of PLGA, the oppressed masses of Dantewara-
Bastar region are not only boycotting the election farce imposed by
the oppressors, but are also electing their own organs of political power,
Janathana Sarkars, with deep political conviction.

7. I shall deal with the 7th and 8th questions together as they are
closely related. Both these question the very strategy of people’s war
and try to set up an artificial wall between our Party and the masses.
As  one  of  the  great  founder-leaders  of  our  Party,  comrade  Charu
Majumdar, pointed out “People’s interests are the Party’s interests”.
There cannot be any other interest for a genuine Communist Party
than  that  of  the  vast  masses.  It  is  not  our  armed  squads  that  are
waging the actual war but the people themselves.

We  believe  that  it  is  the  people,  and  people  alone,  who  make
history.  It  is  they  who  have  to  liberate  themselves  from  all  kinds  of
oppression. Tomorrow if the Communist Party itself changes colour
and becomes a bureaucratic ruler after capturing power, as it occurred
in Russia and China, people will wage a bitter struggle against them
113

also. Our Party and armed squads are mere catalysts that help the
masses to achieve their liberation. It is the people who are the real
heroes and we awaken them and equip them with the scientific theory
of Marxism Leninism Maoism. And theory becomes a material force
once it is correctly grasped by the masses. Our Party and the PLGA
are able to survive the severest repression of the enemy because we
are protected by the masses who act as a fortress of steel. One must
have  a  correct  dialectical  understanding  of  the  interrelationship
between the Party and the masses or else mistakes such as separating
one from the other are bound to occur.

And when you ask us are we not “inviting greater repression by
taking up armed struggle”, I would say “Yes. But without armed struggle
people will continue to live like slaves without self-respect or dignity
and will perish like flies with hunger and destitution.” That is why the
slogan “better to die in struggle rather than succumbing to hunger!”
has become so popular with the masses. You might be aware of the
chilling fact that the number of people who died of hunger and disease
in just the past one decade far exceeds (by five times according to an
estimate) those who died in all the revolutionary wars that occurred in
the last two centuries?

The  ruling  classes  will  not  abandon  political  power  or  their
exploitation, oppression and suppression of the people until they are
forcefully  overthrown.  Whether  to  live  a  life  of  slavery  and  indignity
and die of hunger by remaining docile or by peaceful protests (we all
know the fate of those displaced by Sardar Sarovar project even after
two  decades  of  non-violent  struggle,  just  to  take  one  instance),  or
take up arms to completely eradicate the grounds that give birth to all
kinds  of  suppression  and  oppression  in  order  to  live  as  free  and
independent human beings. Our armed struggle is to draw the curtain
on pre-history of humankind and herald the dawn of real history where
people become the makers of their own destinies, and not a handful
of moneybags and corporate gangsters.

As for measuring the support our Party enjoys among the masses
anyone can easily verify it. The police could not find a single informer
in hundreds of villages which made their task of suppression extremely
difficult. In fact, it is the immense support that we enjoy among the
114

SALWA-JUDUM IS A ‘NEW FRONT’ OF
‘HIDDEN WAR’ BY THE IMPERIALISTS

A GENOCIDAL OPERATION AGAINST TRIBALS

 FOR RICHEST RESERVES OF

  IRON-ORE, COAL, LIMESTONE,

 BAUXITE AND DIAMOND

IN CHHATTISGARH, ORISSA AND JHARKHAND.

JUST LIKE THE U.S. ARMY OCCUPATION OF
IRAQ   FOR OIL AND WORLD DOMINATION,

AND THE BRAVE RESISTANCE OF IRAQI PEOPLE

AGAINST THIS IMPERIALIST OCCUPATION

PEOPLES WAR OF RESISTANCE IN BASTAR

SHOWS THE WAY TO THE MASSES OF INDIA

REELING UNDER THE DEVASTATING,

 ALL-SIDED ONSLAUGHT OF IMPERIALISM.

masses  that  made  the  ruling  classes  sit  up  and  think  of  ways  and
means  to  suppress  us  besides  deploying  the  security  forces.  That
was how the heinous strategy of salwa judum evolved by mobilising
non-tribal exploiters, lumpen elements among the adivasis who were
punished by the jan adalats for their anti-people deeds, and people
from villages falling outside the areas of our struggle. It can also be
seen in the turnout in the elections with several villages boycotting the
polls completely or registering extremely low percentages of votes.

8.  We  totally  agree  with  your  last  point  that  “there  must  be  a
distinction between civilians and combatants” and that “those who claim
to  struggle  for  the  people  must  struggle  responsibly  and  with  full
accountability”. Our Party had always demarcated between civilians
and combatants. But you say such a distinction does not exist today.
We earnestly appeal to you to point out where we have not made the
distinction and we shall certainly correct ourselves if it were true. We
do not consider all those who joined salwa judum or those who are
forced to become SPOs as our enemies. Nor are the people who are
herded into the so-called relief camps set up by the  government to be
treated as enemies. We only consider those who unleash brutal attacks
against villages with the help of the state’s forces as people’s enemies
and    punish  them.  For  outsiders  the  SPOs  might  appear  as  poor
adivasis but to  the masses of adivasis who had borne the brunt of
their  cruel  attacks  the  hardcore  among  the  SPOs  are  even  more
dangerous and brutal than the police. Any independent and impartial
enquiry will bring this truth out. We assure you that we shall take even
greater caution in this regard.

October  10,  2006

Yours  sincerely,

Ganapathi,

General Secretary,

CPI (Maoist)

126

 CONTRIBUTION: Rs. 25/-

115

 APPENDIX-II

EXCERPTS  FROM  THE ARTICLE  “MAOISTS  IN
INDIA A REJOINDER ” SENT BY OUR PARTY TO
THE “ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL WEEKLY” IN
RESPONSE  TO  THE ARTICLES  PUBLISHED  IN
THE SPECIAL ISSUE “MAOISTS IN INDIA”
The Question of Violence

As  mentioned  earlier  this  is  the  single  most  important  thread
passing through all the articles. That is why we shall deal with this at
length. No real communist is for violence per se. Communists are for a
peaceful  social  system  built  around  equality  and  justice.  But  when
they seek to work for such a system they are attacked most brutally.
This is not only today, but ever since the birth of communist ideology.
They have been  butchered, massacred and exterminated by the lakhs
right from the days of the Paris  Commune. It would be naïve to think
that the Indian ruling classes, who have a lengthy record of violence
on the oppressed masses, are any better. Besides, it is not just state
violence that people face; in a class society as exists in India violence
is endemic to the very system and the oppressed masses face it in
their  daily  lives  —  from  the  feudal  authority,  by  the  factory
managements,  through  archaic  feudal  practices  of      untouchability,
patriarchy, superstitious beliefs, etc.

Human society, ever since the birth of classes, has moved forward
only through a   process of prolonged and tortuous struggles giving
birth to new and more advanced systems. Human society has advanced
only through sustained struggle against the   violent state of the ruling
classes of that period. To expect that they will today   accommodate
those demanding a basic change in the system is to deny the lessons
learnt from history.

 For instance, Balagopal has speculated regarding an alternative
response that could have been pursued by the Maoists even after the
encounter  killings  began  in AP.  Would  the  govt,,  as  speculated  by
Balagopal, have allowed the Maoists to  concentrate on exposing the
116

the people, and the guidance it gets from the American intelligence.
But in the name of ‘creativity’ if we seek a compromise with reform and
revisionism, the  revolution will be defeated from the very start.

(cid:148)(cid:79)(cid:148)

125

fascist  nature  that  imperialism  and  its  agents  throughout  the  globe
are acquiring due to the growing economic crisis. Even in the field of
entertainment serious democratic artists are feeling this reduction in
space. This is very clear in India where the governments at the Centre
and  the  States  are  developing  their  armed  might  daily,  on  a  scale
never seen before. More than the intellectuals, they realize that with
the aggressive implementation of their polices of LPG mass revolts
will have to be dealt with. So, it is not clear in which direction does
Tilak pose the case for revising the ideological-political line and the
strategy and tactics of the CPI(Maoist). There is need for much greater
depth of analysis before making such far-reaching statements.

Well-meaning intellectuals need to fight for democratic space from
the fascist rulers backed by the world’s biggest terrorist, US imperialism,
while appreciating the role played by the revolutionaries in confronting
the fascist rulers through all forms of struggle, including armed struggle.
In fact, the armed struggle has created the space for the oppresses
masses to exercise their will and develop their lives.

Today if the movement is weak in many parts of the country, the
need is to strengthen it there, not change to the path to some vague
“genuine  confederation  of  the  various  Left  organisations”.  What  is
needed is not such an amorphous conglomeration, but of a genuine
United  Front  of  the  four  classes  of  the  workers,  peasants,  middle
classes and the national bourgeoisie. An effective UF is the only way
to  rally  all  the  anti-    imperialist,  anti-feudal  forces  and  not  a
confederation of the various Left organizations which blurrs the basic
distinction between the different class forces, and liquidates the edge
of  the  revolution  by  considering  enemies  as  friends.  History  of  all
revolutions, particularly that of Russia and China, have clearly shown
that  victory  was  only  possible  by  fighting  an  uncompromising
ideological-political battle with all forms of revisionism. And where they
compromised, the socialist goal was lost though they may have been
militarily victorious as in Vietnam, Cuba, North Korea, etc.

It  is  true  that  fixed  and  rigid  dogma  does  not  help  one  bit  in
advancing the revolutionary movement against such a sophisticated
enemy. There is the need for utmost creativity in taking on a giant like
the Indian State machinery with their long experience in suppressing
124

anti-poor bias of the govt and extend their mass activity to a point that
would have given their aspiration for state power a solid mass base?
If that possibility existed, why, in the first place, did the ruling classes
pounce on the legal movement in Karimnagar and Adilabad? There
was then no armed activity when the disturbed areas   act was declared
by the Chenna Reddy govt in 1978. And how does one confront the
attacks by the landlords and the police? BG also asserts that a positive
response from the state would have delegitimised the argument for
revolutionary violence. The speculation of BG only displays the illusions
of our intellectuals with regard to the nature of the state, rather than a
realistic appraisal of the situation.

To put so much focus on violence of the Maoists appears to divert
the  issue,  where,  in  the  present  system  the  masses  have  to  face
violence every day of their lives. Hundreds die each day of hunger,
starvation and easily curable illness; is this not violence? Over a lakh
peasants  have  committed  suicide  in  the  past  ten  years;  is  this  not
violence?  Feudal  and  semi-feudal  authority  in  the  villages  has  only
force as its major form; is this not violence? Workers in all but the big
industries (sometime even there) have to regularly face the hoodlums
maintained  by  the  management  and  even  the  police;  is  this  not
violence? Women of our country have to face daily patriarchal violence
and even thousands of so-called dowry deaths; there is no end to the
violence  of  this  system.  Dalits  have  to  face  humiliation,  abuse  and
even death on a daily basis; is this not violence? And over and above
all  this  is  the  daily  violence  of  the  state,  the  Hindutva  fascists,  the
mafia forces maintained by politicians, and the increasing criminalisation
of politics, big business and every aspect of the ruling system. And
over-and-above  all  this  is  the  violence  and  wars  sponsored  by  the
imperialists and their comprador agents.

So, violence is not really the issue; justice is. Or, if Naxalite violence
is to be discussed, it should be in the above overall context of violence
pervading every aspect of our system. If not seen in this framework
we  could  fall  prey  to  the  abstract  bourgeois  concept  that  ‘violence
breeds  violence’.  When  in  fact  revolutionary  violence  is  the  only
violence to end ALL violence of the existing system.

One important aspect of today’s counter-insurgency operations
117

is the massive use of an informer/espionage network to decimate the
movements, not only externally, but also from within. Today, this is one
of the major weapons in counter-insurgency  strategies in the world,
including  India.  This  operates  from  the  very  village  level,      mass
organisation level, to covert operations within the Party itself. Massive
funds are being secretly allocated for this purpose. Many revolutionary
movements throughout the world have faced trying situations because
of the decimation of vast numbers of their cadre and leading forces,
primarily because of this.................. Their existence has lead to the
death of thousands  and  thousand  of  the  best of  revolutionaries
throughout   the world. This has been accompanied by brutal torture
to extract information. Earlier the stories of the unbelievable levels of
torture became public; now they make sure that this does not happen
by killing off the tortured victim and by legitimizing torture (one of the
‘gains’ of the war against terror).

What the world sees is only the overt violence of the state not
these  covert  operations  that  precede  it.  While  the  only  long-term
method of countering this, is by deepening the mass base of the party
(not mere mass support) and by raising the political level of the party;
it is also necessary to deal with them in the immediate sense otherwise
it results in the massacre of the best of our cadre. If all persons in
every  village  are  tightly  organised  (into  mass  organisations,  militia,
and  party  units)  it  is  very  difficult  for  an  informer  to  survive  without
getting noticed soon. But such intensive organisation takes time and
is not so easy in the bigger villages and the urban bastis. In between
the informers are recruited. If not spotted in time and dealt with, it can
lead to the decimation of the entire local leadership and also possibly
of other leaders visiting the area. Most of the elements recruited by
the state may come from poor backgrounds, but they are mostly from
lumpen  or  degenerate  elements.  They  are  recruits  in  the  covert
operations  of  the  police  and  army. Any  leniency  towards  them  can
mean (and has meant) the death of the best of our comrades. Actions
on  these  forces,  are  not  on  civilians,  but  on  recruits  to  the  police/
para-military forces, and should be seen as such. This is important to
understand, in the light of modern-day counter-insurgency in the form
of Low Intensity Conflict devised by the MI5 (of Britain) and the CIA (of
the USA) and used throughout the world.
118

political line and the strategy and tactics of the CPI(Maoist) is quite
potent  by  itself  because  of  the  changed  international  situation  and
above all due to the major worldwide setback to socialism.” Earlier in
the  article  he  also  raised  doubts  on  the  change  to  Maoism.  So  he
questions some of the very basics of the CPI(Maoist). Sagar too after
raising questions on a large number of tactical questions — idealizing
elections,  pitting  mass  action  against  armed  struggle,  opposing
democratization  of  tribal  culture,  negating  its  successes  and  only
focusing on its supposed lack of presence everywhere (as though all
over the world Marxists are making sweeping gains), etc — he goes to
the extent of clubbing the entire ‘left’,   including the ruling class CPI
and CPM with the CPI(Maoist) in a single category by calling for a
“genuine confederation of the various Left organisations”. Sagar goes
so far as to equate the parliamentarians with those leading the armed
struggle  by  saying:  “In  the  broad  context  of  Indian  politics  it  would
appear to him/her that the Left in all its diversity is actually part of one
‘parivar’ with one component doing nothing but  parliamentary work
and the other focusing on armed struggles and the middle  consisting
of many combinations of these two extremes”. Mohanty, while even
having his facts wrong (saying that all have equal strength, which not
even the enemies of the movement say) equates the CPI(Maoist) with
the revisionist Liberation and Kanu Sanyal groups.

Some have taken certain lacunae within the movement to negate
the entire path,  others negate it in the name of ‘changed situation’
and  yet  others  negate  it  by  obfuscating  the  lines  of  demarcation
between  Marxism  and  revisionism.  Now  to  take  some  of  these
arguments: As Tilak says it is true that there have been some changes
in the international situation, though the basic essence of imperialism
has not changed. But the changes, linked with the economic crisis,
and the increasing ferocity of imperialism, particularly the US, would
warrant more extensive and deeper armed resistance than what we
have today. Witness what happened in Iraq, or the arrogance displayed
by Israel in Lebanon and Palestine; or the massacres of   communists
and  even  liberal  opposition  in  Latin America;  the  butchery  of  even
hundreds of mass leaders in the Philippines; etc. The much talked of
‘space’ for the revolutionaries and democrats is shrinking, not because
of the armed activities of the Maoists, but because of the increasing
123

must also be realized that no class war can be expected to be conducted
with clinical precision. It is very tortuous and painful; just as the daily
life of the bulk of our population is no less agonizing.
(b) Some other major arguments

Here we will take only the major arguments and leave the rest for

a future discussion:

(i) There is a tendency to compare the Maoists movements of
Nepal and India, pitting the Nepal Maoists present tactics as a supposed
peaceful alternative to the Indian Maoists violent methods. But one
should not forget the present victories of the anti-monarchy movement
are built primarily on the massive politico-military successful battles
by  the  People’s  Liberation Army  and  their  ability  to  beat  back  the
attacks of the King’s army. Their victories are built on the backbone of
a 30,000 PLA and one lakh militia and the loss of 12,000 lives. This
fact is brought out in a recent interview with the Hindi magazine Philal
where Com Prachanda, the Chairman of the CPI(Maoist), said: “When
we talk with the leaders of these political parties we say that had we
not been armed, there would have been no 12-point understanding.
Had we not been armed, Deuba would never have been able to come
out of prison. Had we not been armed, many of you would have been
killed  because  of  the  feudal  monarchy,  which  murdered  its  blood
relations inside the Palace……. We also told them that our weapons
only made the revival of your parliament possible, you are not credited
with  it,  the  credit  goes  to  the  PLA.  …”.  Besides,  change  of  tactics
depends on the situation in the respectivecountries and the strength
of the contending forces. Yechuri, as also many rightist elements has
particularly sought to pit the Nepal Maoists against the Indian Maoists.
While the CPM brutally suppresses the Maoists in West Bengal it is
hypocritically speaking in praise of the Nepal Maoists. Instead of pitting
one revolution against the other it would be far more constructive to
take the positive experiences of other revolutions and see how best
that  could  concretely  be  applied  to  the  Indian  revolution  to  take  it
forward.

(ii)  Some  of  the  writers  have  focused  on  questioning  the  very
path of the revolution. The most forthright in posing this question was
Tilak  Gupta  who  has  said:  “…the  case  for  revising  the  ideological-
122

There is yet another major misconception; as though the ‘innocent’
people are being caught in the cross-fire between the Naxalites and
the  police.  Firstly,  this  is  not  a  fact.  Secondly,  the  ‘people’  are  not
some homogenous mass, they are divided into classes — the ruling
elite and their hangers-on are with the state while the masses of the
oppressed are with the Naxalites. In any conflict the former support
the state terror (as in the Salwa Judum), while the latter act together
with the Maoists to resist it. This misconception flows from a concept
of a homogenous populace linked to the post-modernist thinking of a
so-called  ‘civil  society’.  The  latter  term  conceals  the  deep  class
divisions within society and results in the above confusion. Though, in
all the conflicts between the state terror and the people’s resistance
there will be some not yet  attached to either side, but the majority are
divided into the two camps — a tiny  minority being with the state, the
masses backing the Naxalites. The above fallacy passes through all
the articles including that of Sumanta Banerjee when he says “ …. the
Maoist guerrillas often betray an immature mind-set by   intimidating
them, instead of patiently politicizing them”. In any village the masses
are  divided  into  three  sections:  the  die-hard  reactionaries,  the
intermediary sections who may vacillate between the two contending
forces, and the masses won over by the Maoists. The above statement
would  apply  to  the  intermediary  sections;  but  in  reality  the  bulk  of
actions  taken  by  the  Maoists  have  been  on  the  die-hard  elements.
There  may  have  been  errors;  and  also  there  may  be  different
conceptions  of  who  belongs  to  the  first  or  second  category. These
can  be  discussed;  but  that  three  have  to  be  clearly  demarcated  is
fundamental to understanding the class struggle at the ground level.
It is a struggle for power. The first category have to be suppressed, or
else they will raise their head again, while the rest have to be patiently
politicized.

There are, of course, problems of class analysis and consequently,
incorrect  handling  of  contradictions  among  the  people  due  to
inexperience of some cadres. Although this is an exception rather than
the  rule,  the  state  has  used  these  aberrations  by  magnifying  them
and many intellectuals who refuse to see the reality have become a
prey to the manipulations of the state often joining the chorus against
revolutionary  violence.

119

Further in the same vein Sumanta Banerjee adds: “Of the two
(i.e. state and CRs), the communist revolutionaries who claim to look
after the welfare of the poor and the  oppressed, are expected to be
more humane in their choice of tactics and genuinely democratic in
getting  popular  consent  for  them  —  particularly  when  such  tactics
affect  the  vast  masses  of  uninvolved  citizens.  If  in  their  drive  for
retaliation they stoop to the level of the police or security forces and
indulge in indiscriminate attacks on soft targets …….”. Real humanity
entails to unconditionally stand by the oppressed. But there is no all-
encompasing humanity. If one loves the rose plant intensely we must
kill the caterpillar. But if the liberal says, “poor caterpillar, do not hurt it
too”, the next day they will find the rose eaten up. So also in a class
society,  where  the  man-eating  ruling  classes,  fiercely  crush  the
oppressed at ever step, real humanity means fierce hatred for their
oppressors.  There  can  be  no  love  without  hate;  there  is  no  all-
encompassing  love.  The  Maoists  may  err  in  certain  actual  actions,
from which we will take lessons, but “to be more humane” cannot be
linked to the question of civil behaviour with the enemy and their agents
in our tactics. If that were so, we will end up like the rose, eaten by the
caterpillar. Having said this, there quite rightly should not be any attack
on soft targets, but targets have to be kept within the framework of the
politico-military aims of the movement — both immediate and long-
term.  For  SB  a  school  building  housing  the  para-military,  or,
communication towers, may be soft targets, but for the Maoists it would
be part of their long-term aims to counter the enemy forces.

 And for SB to go on and club the Maoist violence with that of the
Islamic      fundamentalists  is  unjust  as  nowhere  have  the  Maoists
consciously  attacked  civilians.  The  so-called  civilians  of  the  Salwa
Judum  are  basically  the  vigilantes  —  the  SPOs  and  lumpens  —
mobilised by the state as a vigilante force to kill, burn, loot and destroy
tribal life in countering the Maoists. Though unnecessary losses should
be avoided, like the two children in the Errabore camp, no people’s
war can be so clinical, as to have no civilian causality. The point is
whether the maximum care has been taken not to affect civilians. The
police/para-military  have  been  utilizing  this  principled  stand  of  the
Maoists in their tactics to counter them. For instance, they travel in
public  transport  buses  along  with  civilians  and  use  the  masses  as
120

human shields while coming into Maoist territories. They know well the
Maoists will not attack if civilian lives are involved. They also employ
unarmed policemen and home guards to collect information about the
Maoists  from  Naxal  stronghold  villages,  and  even  use  women  as
informers  as  Maoists  do  not  easily  target  such  people.  3000  home
guards were recruited recently in AP along with 1500 SPOs as admitted
by the Chief Minister at the Chief Ministers’ meeting on terrorism and
Left  extremism on September 5th this year. The Home Minister and
DGP of AP admitted that they had deliberately not given rifles in about
500 or so police stations in the state as they were sure Maoists would
not attack unarmed policemen.

So, to sum up, while violence is endemic to every aspect of this
brutal system, and what the ruling classes indulge in every day. The
violence that characterizes Rayalaseema where the factions belonging
to Congress and TDP enact massacres and murders is really heart-
chilling.. The State has a monopoly over violence, and Naxalite violence
is not even a small fraction of what people face in their daily lives. One
cannot  appreciate  the  need  for  revolutionary  violence  unless  one
understands the fascist nature of today’s state, the cruelty of the state’s
forces, tortures and fake encounters, ban on peaceful meetings, and
virtual violation of the basic democratic rights of the people. The fascist
nature of the state is exposed when confronted by powerful people’s
movements as we witness in all those areas of Maoist movement.

In fact Maoist violence is only to put to an end all this violence in
this rotten system; to bring peace to our country and people. There is
no worship of violence by the Maoists; the reality is that there is no
other  recourse  in  such  a  brutal,  demonic  and  ruthless  system.  By
giving  such  arguments  the  intellectuals  are  defacto  acting  to  justify
the State maintaining their monopoly of violence. We would sincerely
ask the writers of EPW to please suggest how to end the thousands of
other forms of violence of this system? How can the oppressed masses
gain justice?

Finally, we wish to state that in the course of the revolutionary
movement we do make mistakes on this account; but wherever we
have done so we have never sought to hide it, but issued a public
apology. While we will always try and learn from our shortcomings it
121

