COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

North Regional Bureau 

Press statement 

 

3rd July, 2010 

It is not an encounter at all!! It is a cold blooded murder by AP Police!! 

Red Salutes to Martyrs com. Azad (Cherukuri Rajkumar) and com. Hem Pandey (Jitender)!! 

Let us avenge the killings of the beloved comrades by the khaki clad fascist gangs of AP 

government!! 

Azad was arrested at Nagpur on June 1st along with com. Hem Pandey 

On June 1st, the notorious Andhra Pradesh Special Branch Police for its abductions and cold blooded 
murders,  have  arrested  com.  Azad,  Polite  Bureau  member  and  Spokesperson  of  CPI  (Maoist),  and 
com.  Hem  Pandey,  a  zonal  committee  level  comrade  in  Nagpur  city  around  11’o  clock  when  they 
went  to  meet  a  comrade  who  was  supposed  to  receive  them  from  Dandakarnaya  zone.  Com.  Azad 
reached Nagpur around 10 am on the fateful day along with com. Hem Pandey, after travelling from 
long distance.  With specific information, the lawless goons of AP SIB abducted them, perhaps flown 
them in a helicopter, to Adilabad jungles near Maharashtra border and killed them point block and in 
cold blood.  

We pay our red homage to our beloved comrades and vow to take vengeance of these killers. 

Life of com. Azad 

Comrade  Azad  is  one  of  the  senior  most  party  leaders  of  CPI  (Maoist).  He  was  born  in  Krishna 
district of AP, in a well to do family. He did his school education in Sainik School, at Korukonda of 
the present Vizianagaram District.  Com. Surapuneni Janardhan, a legendary comrade of the student 
movement brought com. Raj Kumar into RSU in 1974. A brilliant student at the Regional Engineering 
College, which became famous as Radical Engineering College in those days, he finished his Mtech 
in  Chemical  Engineering  and  moved  to  Vishakhapatnam  as  per  the  Party  direction.   He  was  the 
second president of AP Radical Students Union till 1984. He was the catalyst behind many all Andhra 
wide  student  agitations  and  peoples  movements  in  that  period.  He  became  the  district  committee 
member of vizag unit of the CPI (ML) (PW). He moved length and breadth of India, to organize the 
Seminar on Nationality question held in Madras (now Chennai) in 1981. He was shifted to Karnataka 
in 1982 and com. Azad was one of the founder members of the Karnataka Party and worked as the 
secretary of the Karnataka State Committee. He was taken into CC, after the Central Plenum in 1990. 
He was the elected member of CC in the All India conference in 1995 and since then he served in CC 
and PB. He continued in those posts after the formation of CPI Maoist too in 2004. He has been the 
spokes person of the CC since then.  

Known  for  his  simple  life  and  hard  work;  voracious  reading  and  brilliant  analyses  of  situations, 
crystal clear articulation and sharp logic, and fine organizational skills, he contributed widely to the 
revolutionary  movement  in  many  spheres.  He  wrote  profusely  to  the  People’s  March,  Peoples  war 

(theoretical  organ  of  the  CPI  (Maoist),  and  to  the  Maoist  Information  Bulletin.  He  wrote  a  fine 
critique  of  the  intellectuals  of  AP,  who  got  disillusioned  and  lost  faith  in  revolutionary  movement 
after the 1990 events of collapse of soviet imperialism and its satellite regimes.  

In his death, the Indian revolutionary movement lost an exemplary comrade and a shining star, who 
served the movement more than three and half decades.  

Just  before  his  last  journey,  he  received  questions  for  interview  from  a  well  known  magazine.  He 
replied that he was in the journey and would send the answers as early as possible.  

It is not Sukhdev, but com. Hem Pandey of Uttarakhand who was killed by APSIB 

Com. Hem Pandey, 30, hailed from a nearby village of Pithoragarh town of Uttarakhand State. He did 
his MA history in Nainital University and got himself registered in PhD. While he was in college, he 
was active member of AISA, and slowly realizing he pseudo revolutionary character of AISA politics, 
he  moved  to  the  radical  groups,  later  in  2001  he  joined  the  then  CPI  (ML)  (PW).  He  organized 
peasantry  in  the  mountainous  villages  in  Almora  district,  taking  up  umpteen  numbers  of  issues  of 
peasantry, including the problems arose out of Binsar Sanctuary. Soft-spoken, bespectacled, lean and 
energetic Com. Hem won the love of people of that region. He was moved into more important works 
in  2005.  He  had  done  his  new  assignments  with  patience  and  endurance.   His  appetite  for  learning 
new things, reading more and more, and zeal for penning his ideas are things for the emulation for all 
the revolutionaries. He has written various articles to newsmagazines under various pen names.  We 
request the civil rights organisations to demand the A P police to send the body of com. Hem Pandey 
to his bereaved mother who is in Haldwani, Uttarakhand state, who is his sole surviving parent. 

APSIB- the Indian avatar of Mossad 

The  Andhra  Pradesh  Special  Intelligence  Bureau,  which  has  been  partially  trained  partially  by  the 
Mossad, has acquired the notoriety of its master trainer-Mossad, in India. It has been moving across 
the  state  borders,  and  conducting  abductions  and  cold  blooded  murders  with  impunity.  This  is  all 
happening  with  clear  blessings  of  Manmohan-  Sonia  and  Chidambaram.  This  fascist  gang  has 
established its tentacles all over India, resorting the killings of revolutionaries, scoffing at the recent 
AP  high  court  judgement  that  all  encounters  are  to  be  first  booked  as  murders  under  IPC  302, 
Ultimaely these killers will be taken to task by the revolutionary masses.  

Will Chidambaram expect CPI (Maoist) to sit for talks with his blood on his hands of com. Azad and 
com. Hem Pandey? 

CPI (Maoist) never contested or raised any hue and cry in the case of real encounters. The AP Police 
is  resorting  to  globbeian  lies,  not believed  even  by  gullible.  CPI  (Maoist)  stood  for  truth  and 
accountability to the people, and always stated facts. There is no such programme of Azad going to 
Sarkepally forest of Adilabad.  Azad was going to discuss with our comrades, inter alia, the concrete 
proposals of well meaning people like Swamy Agnivesh about particular dates for the mutual cease 
fire.  He  was  a  carrying  the  confidential  letter  of  Swamy  Agnivesh  written to  Azad  dated-  26th  June 
2010.  Will  Chidambaram  expect  CPI  (Maoist)  to  sit  for  talks  with  his  blood  on  his  hands  of  com. 
Azad  and  com.  Hem  Pandey?  He  calls repeatedly  to  us  to  abjure  violence?  Killing  the  unarmed 
comrades by AP Police with your blessings – is it not like devils chanting scriptures? 

White lies by AP Police 

When  there  is  no  movement  and  organization  in  Adilabad,  what  is  the  necessity  of  Azad  going  to 
Azad? That the police found AK47 is again white lie. He alighted from a train around 10 am along 
with com. Hem Pandey in Nagpur Station, and was caught by the APSIB unarmed.  Is the government 
following  its  own  constitution  of  article  21?  Is  the  government  following  kernel  of  the  Geneva 
Convention that “defenceless persons” should not be harmed? Is it not utter  hypocrisy and hoax that 
on  one  hand  the  government  is  placing  the  prevention  of  torture  bill  and   the  police  every  minute 
resorting to the torture of the detained? It is a concocted story of encounter repeated ad nauseum, by 

the  AP  Police, churned  out  to the  media  umpteen  times.  The  right  life,  guaranteed  under  the 
constitution is mocked and the right to be produced within 24 hours of the arrest is metamorphasized 
into killing within 24hours of arrest, so that there is no scope for any redressal by their near and dear.  

We  appeal  to  the  civil  rights  organizations,  democrats,  patriots  to  raise  to  raise  to  the  occasion 
thoroughly investigate this fake encounter as an example of extra judicial killing that are happening in 
scores in this country and bring out the truth before the people. 

 

Ajay, 

Spokes Person, 

CPI (Maoist) 

 

