             COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 
 

  Central Committee 

 

Press Release 

 

CONTINUE THE STRUGGLE AGAINST THE THREE ANTI PEOPLE AGRICULTURE RELATED 

LAWS, UNTIL MODI GOVERNMENT DOESN'T REPEAL THEM COMPLETELY. 

 
Communist Party of India (Maoist), once again, conveys Red Salutes by extending revolutionary greetings  
to  all  those,  in  Delhi  and  all  over  India,  who  are  resolutely,  continuously  and  unitedly  struggling  for 
repealing  the  three  anti  peasants  laws  of  the  Modi  government.  We fully  welcome  with  warm  spirits,  the 
'Tractor Rally' carried out by them on 26th January 2021. 
These struggles around Delhi and all over India reminds us once again of the struggles against the British 
government's  Rowlett  Act.  Then  it  was  the  British,  now  its  Imperialist  agent  Modi.  Then  it  was  Bhagat 
Singh, today, as his rightfull heirs, there are lakhs of rebellious peasants. Instead of repealing those laws, the 
government is adopting the policy of buying time and exanimating the movement. 11 rounds of  talks have 
taken place, where the peasant's leaders have made it clear to the government that their main demand is that 
the three laws must go, yet the government is wantonly dilly dallying. It’s because the government, is in fact 
the government of the Imperialists and the Comprador Bourgeoisie of India.  
On 26th January, lakhs of peasants in tractors marched to Delhi and exposed to the world how biased and 
anti  farmer,  this  sham  'Republic  Day'  of  India  is.  Even  if  after  giving  permission  for  the  rally,  the 
government  had  been,  via  police,  consistently  trying  to  stop  the  farmers  from  carrying  it  out.  They 
barricaded  the  routes.  Tear  gassed.  Lathi  Charged.  Navrit  Singh,  a  youth  was  dead.  Law  and  order  is  the 
responsibility of the government. They tried their best to convert the peaceful March of the farmers into a 
violent  one.  In  fact  they  had  been  trying  from  start  to  infiltrate  the  peasants  struggle  to  split  it  or  create 
confusions. They succeeded in infiltrating BJP agents Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhna in the Rally. Even after 
tight  security  arrangements  these  agents  were  allowed  to  proceed  towards  Red  Fort.  Allowing  them  to 
proceed to Red Fort, hoist there flag, create ruckus and paint the tractor rally as violent and then foist false 
cases on in its leaders are a part of the conspiracy of the Brahminic hindutva fascist Modi government. We 
condemn this cheap and repressive tactics of the government. We appeal to the soldiers and the police to 
maintain balance and stand in support of the farmers, as they too are the sons and daughters of farmers.  
This Rally has exposed the double-dealing hypocrite Modi who masquerades as 'Principally Servant of the 
People'.  The  truth  that  he  is  not  the  'Principal  Servant  of  the  People  of  India',  but  is  in  fact  the  obedient 
servant of the Imperialists and the comprador corporate houses, has come out openly. With an unreconciling 
stand  towards  repealing  the laws  you  have  through  your  unity  and  firm  resolve  has  smashed  all  tricks  to 
manipulate  you  to  some  sort  of  negotiation.    Still  there  are  some  forces  outside  of  the  United  Front.  We 
appeal to all of them to understand the necessity of the situation and join hands in the fight to repeal the laws. 
The  Modi  government  is  stealing  the  morsel  from  the  mouth  of  the  poor  by  handing  over  procuring  and 
hoarding rights to corporate Adani and Ambani. They are tightening the noose around the farmer's necks by 
starting private markets and making provisions to hand over the lands to the corporate. This law is a decree 
to  snatch  the  livelihood  of  the  small  businesses  and  traders.  It  is  not  just  the  peasants  but  80%  of  the 
ordinary  citizens  who  will  be  badly  affected  by  this  law.  Hence  we  appeal  the  vast  masses  to  join  the 
struggle.  In  the  areas  of  your  work  carryout  consistent  struggles  in  support,  and  force  the  government  to 
repeal these laws. We appeal all the people to protest and demonstrate at different places all over the country 
in  support  of  the  call  by  the  Farmers  United  Front  to  gherao  the  parliament  on  Feb  1st  2021  and  other 
programs  we  call  on  the  Maoist  party  caders,  PLGA,  revolutionary  organisation,  other  organisations  and 
Revolutionary People's Communities (RPCs) to carryout various struggles in support of All India militant 
movement  and  against  the  3  -  laws.  As  a  continuation  of  this  follow  it  up  on  10th  February  (on  Great 
Bhoomakal Day) all over the country.  
 

Abhay, 
Spokesman, 
CPI (Maoist),  
30-01-2021.  

