COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

 

Press Release:                                                                                                           September 26, 2009 

STOP THIS MASS MURDER IN THE INTERESTS OF 

IMPERIALIST MNCS AND COMPRADOR BUSINESS HOUSES! 

PEOPLE OF THE ENTIRE COUNTRY! UNITE TO WAGE A 

DETERMINED WAR AGAINST STATE TERROR!!  

The  Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram  (SMC)  fascist  clique  has  stepped  up  its  cruel  war 
against the people in the areas of armed struggle led by the Maoists. It launched its biggest-ever armed 
onslaught on the adivasis  and the CPI(Maoist) leading them  from the second half of September this 
year. Having turned mad and desperate after the dismal failure of their four-year-long state-sponsored 
counter-revolutionary  terrorist  campaign  of  mass  murder of  adivasis,  mass  rapes of  adivasi  women, 
and destruction of adivasi villages and property in the name of salwa judum, the Congress-BJP fascist 
combine had begun the biggest-ever state terrorist offensive in the vast adivasi-inhabited hinterland in 
order to pave  way  for  the  unbridled  plunder of  the  region  by  imperialist  MNCs and comprador big 
business houses.  

The SMC fascist clique had drawn up an elaborate conspiratorial plan under the guidance of 
the US imperialists to carry out mass extermination of the adivasis so as to loot the enormous mineral 
and forest wealth in the region. Several thousand crores of rupees are paid to the faithful brokers like 
Chidambaram,  Raman  Singh,  Naveen Patnaik and others  by  the  MNCs  and  the  Indian big business 
houses to suppress the armed uprisings of the adivasi masses in the region stretching from Paschimi 
Midnapur-Purulia-Bankura to North Andhra and North Telengana. Chidambaram, the Indian avatar of 
Adolf Hitler had finalized the plan during his trip to Washington last fortnight.   

The hideous plan includes aerial bombardment of some Maoist-held areas even at the cost of 
heavy  civilian  casualties,  destruction  of  several  clusters  of  villages  and  resettling  the  inhabitants  in 
Vietnam-type “strategic hamlets” which they had already tried through the salwa judum with limited 
success, setting up permanent heavily-fortified police camps in the interior regions after  clearing up 
the  region  of  Maoists  and  adivasi  peasantry,  and  carrying  out  propaganda  campaign  against  the 
Maoists  through  cultural  performances,  media  ads,  and  so  on.  On  September  25th  at  least  a  dozen 
adivasis were murdered by the CRPF and other repressive forces of the state in the district of Bijapur. 
A week prior to this at least 30 adivasis were murdered in Singanamadugu in the Palachalma forest in 
Dantewada  district  by  Chidambaram’s  Cobras  after  they  were  beaten  back  by  the  Maoist  guerrillas 
and losing six of their men.  

In a move that reminds us of the desperate morale-boosting trips to Iraq and Afghanistan by 
Donald Rumsfeld, George Bush and Co, the US imperialist agent Chidambaram too rushed to Raipur 

and Ranchi on September 25 to boost up the morale of the central forces deployed in these states and 
assured the state governments of all assistance in suppressing the Maoists.   It is clear that the SMC 
clique is all set to carry out a blood-bath in vast parts of the country where the people’s war is surging 
ahead.  And  to  justify  this  hideous  plan  these  Indian  offspring  of  Goebbels  have  intensified  the 
psychological  war  through  media  ads  against  the  Maoists.  The  photos  of  police  agents  and  Special 
Police  Officers  punished  by  the  Maoists  are  prominently  published  in  the  ads  in  a  vain  attempt  to 
prove that revolutionary violence by the Maoists is senseless. This cheap trick cannot fool the people 
who  are  witness  to  the  daily  violence  perpetrated  by  the  reactionary  rulers  and  their  lawless  armed 
gangs called  the security  forces.  Thousands of Maoist  revolutionaries and  even a  greater  number of 
innocent civilians were murdered by these repressive forces in the past four decades. In just four years 
of the bloody salwa judum campaign since June 2005, over 500 adivasis were brutally  murdered by 
the  combined  forces  of  salwa  judumn  goondas,  police  and  central  forces  in  two  districts  of 
Chhattisgarh  alone.  Can  Chidambaram  succeed  in  fooling  the  people  through  his  Goebbels’ 
propaganda?  Such cheap propaganda is certain to ultimately back-fire on his face.  

The  CC,  CPI(Maoist)  appeals  to  all  revolutionary,  democratic  and  peace-loving  forces  to 
unite to resist this fascist country-wide offensive by the Central and state governments, build a mass 
movement to force the reactionary rulers to stop this mass murder of the adivasi people, and extend 
solidarity and all kinds of help to the victims of this bloody state terrorist violence. It  calls upon the 
entire  rank  and  file  of  the  Party,  the  brave  PLGA  fighters,  and  the  revolutionary  masses  to  rise  up 
courageously to confront the brutal offensive unleashed by the imperialist agents ruling our country, to 
prepare  for  immense  sacrifices  in  this  war  of  resistance,  and by  displaying  exemplary  steadfastness 
and  courage  to  inflict  severe  blows  on  the  mercenary  Cobras  and  other  state-hired  forces  that  are 
causing havoc in the areas of armed struggle.      

  

 

Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 

 

 

