COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

 

Press Release:                                                                                                           September 24, 2009 

Fight for the unconditional release of Maoist leader comrade Kobad 

Ghandy! Maoists are champions of people’s cause; Expose the 

reactionary propaganda that Maoists are terrorists!!  

As part of their all-round brutal offensive against the CPI(Maoist) and the ongoing people’s 
war  in  India,  the  Sonia-Manmohan-Chidambaram  fascist  clique  at  the  Centre  and  the  various 
exploiting class parties in the states, irrespective of their colour, have engaged their lawless repressive 
state  apparatus  to  eliminate  the  central  and  state  leadership  of  our  Party.  Exactly  a  month  after  the 
arrest of a Polit Bureau member of our Party,  comrade Sumit, from Ranchi  on August 19,  and four 
months after the abduction and brutal murder of our Central Committee member com Patel Sudhakar, 
another Polit Bureau member and a senior leader of the CPI(Maoist), comrade Kobad Ghandy, was 
arrested from Delhi. Comrade Kobad Ghandy had just returned from a trip to the guerrilla zone. The 
arrest of comrade Kobad Ghandy is being touted as a big success of the Intelligence officials while it 
was actually a result of the betrayal by a weak element in the Party who was acting as his courier.  He 
was  betrayed  by  his  courier  who  led  the  SIB  from  AP  and  the  Intelligence  wing  in  Delhi  to  the 
appointment spot in Bhikaji Cama Place in South Delhi.  The police claimed that he was arrested on 
the night of 20th September, but the actual arrest was made on 17th. The prompt reaction from various 
democratic  and  civil  rights  organizations  foiled  the  plan  of  the  Intelligence  agencies  and  the  police 
officials to torture and murder him as is their usual norm. The CC, CPI(Maoist) hails the efforts made 
by the various democratic forces in defending the life of comrade Kobad Ghandy and appeals to them 
to  fight  against  the  heinous  attempts  of  the  reactionary  rulers  to  implicate  him  in  false  cases,  to 
conduct Narco tests and to mentally harass him.  

Comrade  Kobad  Ghandy,  who  hails  from  a  rich,  elitist  background,  had  abandoned 
everything and mingled with the oppressed masses serving them selflessly for almost four decades. He 
lived with the unorganized workers, adivasi peasants, and the urban poor and became popular among 
the oppressed sections of the Indian people. He organized revolutionary activity in Maharashtra during 
the 1970s and became a  member of  the  Central  Committee of erstwhile  CPI(ML)[PW] in 1981.  He 
continued  as  a  member  of  the  CC  of  the  merged  CPI(Maoist)  in  2004  and  was  elected  to  the  Polit 
Bureau after the Unity Congress—9th Congress in February 2007. He played a crucial role in bringing 
out  the  Party  publications  in  English  and  was  also  looking  after  the  subcommittee  on  Mass 
Organisations set up by the CC besides other works. The arrest of comrade Kobad Ghandy is a great 
loss to the CPI(Maoist) and the Indian revolution.  

The reactionary rulers were elated by this temporary success and the wily Chidambaram had 
congratulated the Intelligence agencies for the ‘prize catch’. Like true heirs to George Bush these state 
terrorists  have  stepped  up  their  propaganda  that  the  Maoists  and  the  Maoist  leader  comrade  Kobad 
Ghandy  are  terrorists.  They  churn  out  numbers  to  show  how  thousands  have  become  victims  of 

Maoist violence. But the fact is: while the Maoists had punished only the repressive forces of the state, 
the anti-people feudal forces and the police agents, it is the police, para-military forces and the armed 
vigilante  gangs  like  the  salwa  judum  that  are  continuously  carrying  out  a  mass  murder  campaign 
completely destroying over 800 tribal villages, murdering over 500 adivasis and raping over a hundred 
adivasi  women  in  Dantewada  and  Bijapur  districts  alone.  Same  is  the  story  in  Bihar,  Jharkhand, 
Andhra  Pradesh,  West  Bengal’s  Lalgarh  and  other  areas,  Orissa,  Maharashtra,  and  so  on.  This  21st 
century breed of Goebbels can never fool the people through their outright lies about the Maoists who 
live  among  the  people,  who  live  for  the  people,  and  who  have  no  other  interests  than  those  of  the 
oppressed  people.  None  would  believe  that  the  freedom-loving  Maoists  who  are  fighting  for  the 
oppressed  people  undergoing  countless  sacrifices  and  facing  tremendous  hardships  and  brutal 
repression  by  the  police  would  terrorise  the  very  same  people  for  whose  liberation  they  have  been 
waging a bitter war against the Indian state. It is a Tata, a Mittal, a Jindal, a Vedanta, a Ruia and their 
loyal  representatives  like  Manmohan,  Chidambaram,  Raman  Singh  that  are  terrified  by  the  Maoists 
who are challenging their exploitation and oppression of the adivasis and the abundant wealth in the 
vast adivasi belt.   

Comrade Kobad Ghandy is a role model to be emulated by the new generation of youth that is 
being estranged from its own people by the elitist, slavish, anti-people colonial education system and 
selfish values promoted by the pro-imperialist rulers. Let us unite to fight against the attempts by the 
Indian state to persecute revolutionary intellectuals, Maoist leaders and fighters like comrade Kobad 
Ghandy  who  had  dedicated  their  entire  lives  for  the  liberation  of  the  people  from  the  clutches  of 
imperialist, feudal and comprador capitalist exploitation and oppression.  Maoists are servants of the 
people while Manmohans, Chidambarams and Raman Singhs are servants of the imperialists, feudal 
forces and the lumpen, parasitic, mafia capitalist class. Maoists are fighting selflessly for the liberation 
of the oppressed while Manmohan Singhs Chidambarams, Raman Singhs and Co are the  oppressors 
spreading terror among the people.  

 

Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 

 

 

