   

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST)    
                   CENTRAL COMMITTEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

                                                      PRESS STATEMENT                          

CONDEMN THE BRUTAL KILLINGS OF COMRADES KUPPUSAMY AND AJITHA!        

         On November 24, 2016 COM: KUPPUSAMY, central committee member and secretary of western 
ghats special zonal committee and COM: AJITHA, SZCM and incharge of Tamilnadu urban movement 
were captured alive in an encounter and brutally killed by the notorious central and state mercenary 
forces near by kalkulam village, nilambur forest area of malappuram district, kerala state.  The police 
had claimed a usual story that ‘a patrolling team of special forces was attacked by maoists. At last no 
other way, police forces also fired as a retaliation and 2 were killed’. But as part of the LIC policy, it is a 
well planned execution of the leadership to crush the maoist party. Because of the health problems of 
the martyred comrades, the nadugani squad camped in that area with very less number. Hundreds of 
heavily  armed  special  forces  attacked  the  camp,  captured  these  two  comrades  alive,  tortured  and 
killed brutally. After this Incident the police department unleashed an unprecedented terror campaign 
and  goebbellsion  propaganda  about  the  maoist  party  throughout  kerala  and  threatening  the  local 
people not to support the maoists. They are threatening the relatives of the martyred comrades too.  
The journalists and the human rights activists who try to bring truth into the light are also attacked 
and are even banished. 
       The ruling revisionist CPM government of kerala led by fascist pinarayi vijayan are well playing a 
drama that as a communist party, they are hailing the martyrdom of cuban revolutionary leader Fidel 
castro  and  conducting  a  statewide  commemoration  programs.  On  the  other  hand,  they  are  joining 
hands  with  hindutva  fascist  narendra  modi’s  central  government  to  nip  the  bud  of  revolutionary 
movement led by CPI (MAOIST) party which is growing in the trijunction area of western ghats.  They 
are day dreaming that they could suppress the revolutionary movement by killing top leadership. But 
a revolutionary party will not be eliminated through the killings of leadership. Because it is guided by 
the scientific theory of marxism- leninism- maoism. They forget the bitter lesson what they got from 
the  people  of  midnapore,  west  bengal.  They  are  trying  to  prevent  the  oppressed  masses  from 
advancing  the  revolutionary  road.  Definitely  one  day  the  people  will  teach  them  a  lesson  and  anti 
people elements will be overthrown sooner.  
      Com: Kuppusamy @ Manju  @ Prasad was born in an oppressed dalith  poor family in  krishnagiri 
district of tamilnadu. After completing his studies, he worked in L&T company in banglore, karnataka. 
He  came  to  party  contact  in  1979-80’s.  He  is  one  of  the  member  in  the  leading  core  group  of  the 
erstwhile PW party in karnataka. Later it formed as state committee and he became its member. As a 
leader,  he  organised  masses  of  karnataka  under  different  issues.  Particularly  he  concentrated  in 
organising workers and vast oppressed masses in and around bangalore city. In 1992 he firmly stood 
with the party in the struggle against opportunist kondappalli seetharamaiyya, former secretary of the 
erstwhile People’s war party. He elected as state committee secretary of karnataka in 1993. He elected 
to  the  central  committee  in  2001  9th  congress  and  also  reelected  in  the  2007  unified  9th  congress 
which held after the merger of the CPI(Maoist) party. He worked as a member of the south western 
regional  bureau  and  developed  the  party  in  southern  states.  Particularly  he  always  hails  the  tamil 
peoples aspirations for separate nation in srilanka. He clearly analysed the defeat of LTTE in marxist 
approach and tried to build a strong broad solidarity movement for them. He strived hard to break the 
stagnation of the revolutionary movement in the southern states and played an important role in the 
struggle against the opportunistic line which came as an obstacle in karnataka and tamilnadu and  led 
the party towards revolutionary path. He firmly upholds Marxism- Leninism- Maoism, crossed thorny 
path  with  twists  and  turns,  ups  and  downs  and  even  the  renegades  betrayal  to  the  development  of 
revolutionary movement in south india, he  dared to open  a  war front in trijunction area of western 
ghats.  He  tried  to  unite  all  the  genuine  revolutionary  forces  and  played  an  important  role  in  the 

merger of CPI (MAOIST) and CPI ML (NAXALBARI).  He is a revolutionary proliteriat intellectual, not 
like as bourgeoisie think tanks, he develop himself from the oppressed condition. 
Com:  Ajitha  @  kaveri  born  in  chennai,  tamilnadu.  she  came  to  party  contact  in  the  early  90’s  and 
worked as a leader of women organisation ‘Tamilnadu pennurimai kazhagam’. she led many struggles 
against  the  violence  on  women  and  organised  them  in    revolutionary  path.  When  tamilnadu  party 
faced  serious  losses  in  2002,  she  went  underground  and  led  the  urban  mass  organisations. 
Particularly  she  guided  several  trade  union  struggles.  She  played  an  important  role  in  the  struggle 
against opportunistic line which arised in tamilnadu. Even her life partner took opportunistic line and 
flew  away,  she  firmly  stood  with  the  party.  She  relentlessly  fought  against  male  domination  both 
inside and outside the party. After the arrests of 4 SZCMs in coimbatore, the police tried to arrest her 
several  times.  As  per  the  decision  of  the  SZC  she  stayed  inside  the  forest  and  guided  the  urban 
movement.  
Comrades, 
          Today,  Lakhs  and  thousands  of  people  throughout  the  country  are  struggling  against  the  anti 
people policies of fascist modi’s central government which is backed by brahmical hindu fascism. They 
are realising that CPI (MAOIST) is the only revolutionary party which could liberate the toiling masses 
from this sordid social condition. The oppressed people throughout the country are organising more 
and  more  under  the  leadership  of  CPI  (MAOIST)  party.  Therefore  the  ruling  classes  are  adopting 
various repressive and deceptive tactics to crush the CPI (MAOIST) party and even trying to pacify all 
kinds of people’s democratic struggles and trying to divert the boiling social discontent. It is real that 
the martyrdom of the two top leadership comrades Kuppusamy and Ajitha is a serious loss not only 
for the western ghats movement but also for the all india movement. But a revolutionary party always 
overcome  the  losses.  These  two  exemplary  leaders  laid  their  invaluable  lives  for  the  liberation  of 
toiling masses from hunger, poverty and oppression. They lived and sacrificed their lives for the noble 
cause of Communism, and ideals of a class less society. They once again shown the glorious path of our 
martyrs, that commitment to cause and the people, selflessness, swimming against the tide, ready to 
bear  any  hardship  and  the  Bolshevik  spirit.  The  fascist  central  and  state  governments  making  all 
efforts by deploying notorious forces to crush the budding revolutionary movement in trijunction of 
western ghats. Their sacrifice shall not go in vain. The revolutionary red flag is turning more and more 
red by the blood shed by thousands of heroic martyrs in the course of fighting against the enemy. The 
people  and  the  guerrillas  are  determined  to  fulfill  the  dreams  of  these  martyrs  by  hitting  back  the 
enemy. The central committee of CPI (MAOIST) is strongly condemning the brutal killings of comrades 
KUPPUSAMY and AJITHA and We are appealing the workers, peasants, students, youths, intellectuals, 
oppressed  nationalities  and  oppressed  social  sections  including  dalits,  adivasis  and  religious 
minorities to condemn the fake encounter and brutal killings and to unite broadly and get organised 
strongly enough to resist the ruling-class onslaught by all possible means. 

 
Revolutionary greetings 

                                                                                                                                                
 
                                                                                                                                                (Abhay)  
                                                                                                                                           Spokesperson   
                                                                                                                                         Central Committee  
                                                                                                                                              CPI (MAOIST)  
                                                                                                                                                15.12.2016 

