COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

 

Press Release:                                                                                                           October 10, 2009 

Red Salutes to Balagopal, the close friend of the oppressed and well-
wisher of revolution! Balagopal will remain an inspiration to all those 

who dare to fight against state terrorism!!  

The  sudden demise of  the  veteran  leader of  the civil rights  movement  in our  country  and  a 
great people’s  intellectual,  Dr.  K. Balagopal, due  to heart stroke on  October 8, has come as a  great 
shock to all democratic and revolutionary forces in our country. The oppressed people of our country 
and  particularly  the  people  in  the  police  state  of  Andhra  Pradesh  have  lost  a  close  friend  and  an 
indefatigable,  bold  champion  of  their  cause.  As  a  steadfast  and  intrepid  fighter  against  state  terror, 
fake encounters, violation of basic human rights and police atrocities, Balagopal has remained a close 
friend of the oppressed people of our country and a well-wisher of the revolution throughout his life. 
The  CC,  CPI(Maoist),  on  behalf  of  the  entire  Party  rank  and  file  and  the  oppressed  people  of  the 
country, expresses its deepest anguish and extreme grief at the sudden demise of this untiring fighter 
for the democratic rights of the oppressed people groaning under the weight of the semi-colonial semi-
feudal  Indian  fascist  state.  Balagopal’s  death  is  an  irrecoverable  and  grave  loss  to  the  civil  rights 
movement in India.  

Balagopal stands out as a shining example to the intellectuals of the day. He has set a glowing 
example in every aspect of his life: his great simplicity and hard work, deep love and affection for the 
poorest of the poor—a trait that is lacking in most intellectuals who only have contempt for the toiling 
masses,  lack of ego and individualism that are generally the traits of the intellectual section, single-
minded devotion to the civil rights cause, enormous courage on the part of an individual to confront 
the might of the state in the face of continuous persecution by the police, all these qualities stand out 
in sharp contrast to the hypocrisy, sycophancy, snobbery, elitist and self-seeking attitudes of the pro-
establishment  and  ivory-tower  intellectuals  who  dominate  the  country’s  political  scene  today. 
Balagopal’s  bold  exposure  of  the  fake  encounters  staged  by  the  AP  police  under  the  Congress  and 
TDP regimes, his objective investigation into hundreds of fake encounters in Andhra Pradesh and his 
critical writings against the government and the police raj in AP had infuriated the oppressive rulers 
and their mercenary police to such an extent that they made several attempts to silence this bold voice. 
He was  arrested in the mid-1980s, again state-sponsored terrorist gangs kidnapped him  in 1989 and 
threatened him not to take up investigation into encounter killings of Naxalites and other instances of 
police  atrocities.  But  all  these  did  not  deter  this  committed  champion  of  people’s  rights  and  he 
continued his fight against state terror until his last. His analysis on several contemporary issues  too 
had helped the people in getting a correct grasp of even very complex issues. He was a mathematician, 
historian, social scientist and civil rights leader combined into one.  

Ever since the mid-1970s when he was doing his research in Warangal, Balagopal had close 
relationship  with  the  revolutionary  movement  led  by  erstwhile  CPI(ML)[People’s  War]  but  by  the 

mid-1990s he gradually drifted away from the Party due to ideological-political differences. Although 
by  late  1990s  he  drifted  away  from  Marxism  Leninism  and  went  under  the  influence  of  post-
modernism, and though he made sharp criticisms on the Party line and practice, Balagopal had always 
remained sympathetic to revolution and a well-wisher of the Maoists.  He chose the civil rights front 
to carry on his battle against the state as he felt  he would be able to contribute more to the people in 
the  civil  rights  movement.  And  in  this  field  he  remained  most  committed,  tenacious  and  unshaken 
until his last breath. The intellectual sections of our society have a lot to learn from Balagopal’s life 
and work.  

 

 

Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 

 

 

