COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

 

Press Release:                                                                                                           September 21, 2009 

Hail the Heroic Resistance of Maoist PLGA against the CoBRA-led 

massive brutal offensive in Dandakaranya! 

Condemn the mass murder of unarmed adivasis by the Chidambaram-

Raman Singh’s armed goons!!  

On 18 September 2009, Chidambaram-Raman Singh’s central para-military and state police 
mercenaries led by the specially-trained CoBRA commandos began their blood-bath in the forests of 
Dandakaranya to establish the ‘rule of law’ of the imperialist MNCs, comprador big business houses 
and  unscrupulous  contractors.  Code-named  ‘Operation  Green  Hunt’,  the  biggest-ever  offensive  till 
date, mobilized around 4000 CRPF and BSF troops of the Centre, STF and other special police forces 
from  Chhattisgarh,  and  the  Grey  Hounds  from  Andhra  Pradesh.  Around  600  commandos  of  the 
CoBRA  force  led  the  anti-Maoist,  anti-adivasi  operation.  The  Operation  Green  Hunt  which  was 
unleashed in Kishtaram-Gollapalli area in Dantewada district, is itself a part of the larger ‘Operation 
Godavari’ encompassing the states of Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Orissa which is 
meant to turn Godavari into a river of blood of innocent adivasis. All these brutal so-called mopping-
up operations are planned and executed by a unified command set up to co-ordinate the police forces 
of seven states besides the central forces. Simultaneous operations are launched in Jharkhand, Bihar 
and  West  Bengal  so  as  to  cover  the  entire  adivasi-inhabited  region  stretching  from  Paschimi 
Midnapur-Bankura-Purulia  in  West  Bengal  to  Srikakulam-Vishakhapatnam-Vizianagaram  in  North 
Andhra Pradesh and Khammam in North Telengana.   

The Maoist PLGA guerrillas beat back the massive brutal offensive most courageously and 
wiped out at least six Cobra mercenaries including two assistant commandants, one SI, and three other 
Cobras. At least 20 more Cobra personnel are said to be missing after the operation. This is the biggest 
ever  loss  suffered  by  the  Cobra  commandos.  Demoralised  by  the  serious  losses,  these  mercenaries 
pounced on the surrounding adivasi villages, caught  several unarmed adivasis and murdered them in 
cold blood. After this ghastly massacre, these ‘brave’ commandos claimed that 30 Maoists were killed 
in  a  series  of  encounters.  Thus  the  ‘rule  of  jungle  law’  of  Manmohan  Singh-Chidambaram-Raman 
Singh was implemented.   

The  brutal  onslaught  launched  by  central  and  state  forces  in  the  forests  of  Dandakaranya 
reveals the extreme demoralization and utter desperation of the imperialist-backed Sonia-Manmohan-
Chidambaram clique at the Centre, and Raman Singh’s saffron regime in Chhattisgarh, whose plans to 
isolate  the  Maoists  and  to  lay  their  dirty  hands  on  the  vast  mineral  wealth  in  the  adivasi-inhabited 
regions  in  Eastern  and  Central  India  or  the  so-called  Red  Corridor,  have  come  to  a  nought. 
Chidambaram and his bunch of Washington-trained gangsters in the Home Ministry first outlawed the 

CPI(Maoist) and declared it as a terrorist organization. Then they stepped up their savage state terror 
and state-sponsored terror in the name of establishing the ‘rule of law’. It is the massive participation 
of the adivasi masses, led by the CPI(Maoist), into militant struggles against the anti-people policies 
of the government that has rattled the rulers and prompted them to unleash a brutal reign of state terror 
in the name of countering the so-called terrorism of the Maoists. However, with the staunch support of 
the adivasis masses, the PLGA led by the CPI(Maoist) had heroically confronted and defeated several 
police  offensives  causing  considerable  losses  to  the  security  forces.  Neither  the  Cobras  nor  other 
commando  forces  trained  in  jungle  warfare,  nor  the  Rashtriya  Rifles  of  the  Indian  Army  which the 
desperate rulers want to deploy, can suppress the just movement led by the Maoists whose roots are 
firmly entrenched among the vast oppressed masses of India.  

We  call  upon  the  entire  Party  ranks,  the  heroic  fighters  of  PLGA,  and  the  members  of  all 
revolutionary mass organizations to mobilise the masses all over the country into militant movements 
against  the  brutal  onslaught  by  the  Congress-led  UPA  government  and  the  BJP’s  Raman  Singh 
government in Dandakaranya. We call upon all democratic-minded organizations and individuals, and 
the  entire  people  of  the  country  to  condemn  with  one  voice  the  fascist  onslaught  unleashed  by  the 
Central and state governments on the adivasi peasant masses and the Maoists who are leading them in 
their struggle against displacement, exploitation and oppression by the imperialist MNCs, comprador 
big business houses and the parasitic Indian state.   

 

Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist) 

 

 

