               COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Release 

 

 

 

On the occasion of the 18th Formation Day of the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA)       
on 2 December, observe PLGA Week from 2 to 8 December 2018 with revolutionary enthusiasm!  

10 November 2018 

The People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) is one of the three magic weapons indispensible 
for the success of the new democratic revolution in India. As Comrade Mao said, the people have nothing 
without a people’s army. It is with this understanding that PLGA was formed on 2 December 2000 under 
the  leadership  of  our  Party  with  the  aim  of  liberating  India  from  the  exploitation  and  oppression  of 
imperialism,  comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  and  feudalism.  It  was  formed  as  per  the  guidance  of 
Comrade  Charu  Majumdar  and  Comrade  Kanhai  Chatterjee  –  the  founders,  teachers  and  builders  of 
Indian revolution – along with the inspiration of immortal martyrs Comrades Shyam, Mahesh and Murali 
and upholding the spirit of thousands of martyred comrades of the revolutionary movement.  

Our PLGA  is  going  to  complete  18  years  of its  formation  on  the coming  2  December.  On  this 
occasion,  the  Central  Committee  (CC)  of  our  Party  conveys  its  revolutionary  greetings  to  all  Party 
committees,  Party  members,  PLGA  commands,  red  commanders  and  fighters  of  PLGA,  Revolutionary 
People’s  Committees,  leaders  and  members  of  the  revolutionary  mass  organisations  as  well  as  the 
revolutionary  masses  and  calls  upon  them  to  commemorate  this  historic  day  by  taking  up  various 
programmes in all rural and urban areas where our Party is active. In the period from 2 December 2017 
till now, nearly 235 comrades including Politburo members to Village Party Committee members have 
made the supreme sacrifice by laying down their precious lives on the road to make successful the Indian 
revolution. The CC conveys its red homage to these comrades who have been martyred in the last one 
year fighting back the enemy’s fascist war on people in the name of ‘Samadhan’ strategic plan.  

On this occasion, let us strengthen the PLGA by recruiting youth from the oppressed classes and 
social  sections  in  their  thousands.  Let  us  develop  our  guerrilla  army  ideologically,  politically  and 
militarily  in  the  light  of  Marxism-Leninism-Maoism  so  as  to  bring  both  quantitative  and  qualitative 
change to its commands and detachments. Let us intensify our efforts to realise the central task given by 
the Unity Congress-9th Congress of building base areas by transforming the PLGA to PLA and guerrilla 
war to mobile war. Taking inspiration from our martyred leaders and comrades, let us take pledge to fulfil 
their  dreams  and  aspirations  by  crushing  the  Brahmanical  Hindu-fascist  forces,  defeating  all  counter-
revolutionary attacks like ‘Samadhan’ and completing the new democratic revolution to build socialism 
and communism.  
 

 

o  Intensify the struggle against Brahmanical Hindu-fascism using all forms of struggle! 
o  Take forward the anti-imperialist and anti-feudal class struggle throughout the country! 
o  Expand and intensify the guerrilla war by consolidating the mass base and strengthening the 

Party and the PLGA! 

o  Defeat  the  ‘Samadhan’  strategic  attack  conducted  by  the  central  and  state  governments 

aimed at wiping out the revolutionary movement in India! 

 

 

 

(Abhay) 

Spokesperson 

Central Committee 

CPI(Maoist) 

