   COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

Press Statement 

 

30 August 2018 

Condemn the raids, arrest, attempted arrest and                                                                                

house-arrest of social activists on trumped-up charges! 

 

Demand withdrawal of charges and release of all                                                                                
social activists implicated in Bhima-Koregaon case!  
Unite to intensify the countrywide people’s movement 

 

against Brahmanical Hindu-fascism! 

 

Maharashtra Police in collusion with the central intelligence agencies and the police of five states carried 
out a series of coordinated raids on the houses of several prominent social activists on 28 August. The pretext used 
was the purported investigation into the alleged Maoist links behind the Bhima-Koregaon event and the so-called 
Maoist conspiracy to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi. These allegations are nothing but inventions of 
the Maharashtra Police working under the diktats of RSS and Modi-Shah-Bhagwat clique to silence the voices of 
dissent against Hindutva terror and the terror of Hindu-majoritarian Indian state. Five well-known social activists 
Rona  Wilson,  Prof.  Shoma  Sen,  Adv.  Surendra  Gadling,  Sudhir  Dhawale  and  Mahesh  Raut  have  already  been 
incarcerated in Pune jail since 6 June on these very charges. 

The latest crackdown of 28 August began with raids on the residences of revolutionary poet Varavara Rao, 
his  relatives  Prof.  K  Satyanarayana  and  journalist  N  Venugopal  of  Hyderabad,  Father  Stan  Swamy  of  Ranchi, 
social  activist  Vernon  Gonzalves  and  Advocate  Arun  Ferreira  of  Mumbai,  Advocate  Sudha  Bharadwaj  of 
Faridabad and civil rights activist and journalist Gautam Navlakha of New Delhi. Their houses were searched and 
computers, hard-disks and other electronic devices were seized by the policemen violating all norms. Following the 
raids,  Varavara  Rao,  Vernon  Gonzalves,  Arun  Ferreira,  Sudha  Bharadwaj  and  Gautam  Navlakha  were  arrested 
under various sections of the UAPA in brazen violation of the “due process of law”. However, as the police failed 
to  provide  any  justification  for  the  arrests  and  trampled  upon  the  legal  procedure,  the  courts  refused  the  transit 
remand of the last two. The three others were brought to Pune and produced before a local court on 29 August. 

After  the  news  of the  raids  and  arrests  became  public,  there  was  an  eruption  of  indignation  and  protest 
throughout  the  country.  People’s  organisations,  political  parties  and  individuals  across  political  affiliations 
condemned this fascist crackdown in one voice and protest demonstrations were organised in different parts of the 
country. Several international human rights organisations too expressed their strong objection to the trampling of 
the civil and democratic rights of the political dissenters in this manner. Only the Sangh Parivar and its lackeys 
were  found  desperately  trying  to  defend  this  indefensible  police  action  with  their  usual  lies  and  deceit,  thereby 
exposing themselves in the eyes of the country’s masses.  

It was under pressure of this outburst of public indignation that the Supreme Court gave an urgent hearing 
to the petition of five prominent public intellectuals challenging these arrests the very next day, which foiled the 
government’s  design  to  put  the  social  activists  behind  bars  immediately.  While  rejecting  the  government’s 
contention  for  their  arrest,  the  SC  warned  that  dissent  is  the  ‘safety-valve’  of  any  democracy,  and  if  it  is  not 
tolerated  but  stifled,  there  will  be  an  explosion  of  the  ‘pressure-cooker’  that  will  smash  the  very  edifice  of  the 
existing system. This is an oblique reminder to the ruling classes that if they continue to suppress the country’s 
people  in  this  fascist  manner,  the  people  will  not  tolerate  this  all  the  time  and  will  certainly  overthrow  their 
oppressors sooner or later. In fact, the brazenness of the crackdown in the garb of ‘investigation’ into the Bhima-
Koregaon incident has been such that organs of the Indian state like the SC and the NHRC too had to acknowledge 
the violations and reprimand the government and the police. 

 The defeat of the heinous conspiracy to arrest the social activist is a slap on the face of the Hindu-fascists 
and a victory to the people’s united struggle against the fascist and reactionary forces – no matter how partial or 
temporary  it  may  be.  It  has  sent  a  strong  warning  to  the  reactionary  ruling-classes  and  their  most  loyal  servant 
RSS-BJP that the people of the country will not take their repeated acts of fascist terror lying down. It is one more 
proof that the people will fight back at every step the evil design to turn the country into a fascist ‘Hindu Rashtra’ 
and foil the Hindutva agenda by using all means.  

The  illusions  created  by  Modi’s  pre-election  promise  of  ‘Acche  Din’  are  fading  fast  and  the  people’s 
discontent against the government is on the rise due to its fascist, treacherous, anti-people policies. This discontent 
is  taking  the  form  of  organised  militant  struggles  by  workers,  peasants,  Dalits,  Adivasis,  religious  minorities, 

 

1 

oppressed nationalities, women, students, youth and intellectuals, etc., in all parts of the country. This is making 
BJP-RSS more and more desperate to cling to power by using methods of fascist terror against all opposition and 
dissenting voices. Failing on all fronts in the last four years and keeping in view the next year’s general elections, 
Modi government is now peddling the new illusion of building a ‘New India’ by 2022 for the benefit of the feudal-
comprador  ruling  classes  and  their  masters  –  the  imperialists.  An  important  component  of  the  drive  towards  a 
Hindu-fascist ‘New India’ is the trampling of all democratic rights of the people that were achieved through united 
struggles and wiping out of all democratic movements championing the cause of the oppressed masses. The BJP-
RSS want to stop the people from rising up against their government as they have been doing of late in militant 
peasant  movements,  protest  of  Dalits  after  Bhima-Koregaon  violence  and  dilution  of  the  SC/ST  Prevention  of 
Atrocities  Act,  Adivasis  rising  up  against  interference  with  CNT/SPT  Acts  and  in  the  Patthalgadhi  movement, 
liberation movements of the Kashmiri and Northeast nationalities, etc.  

As  an  integral  part  of  building  this  Hindu-fascist  ‘New  India’,  BJP  governments  and  the  Sangh  Parivar 
want to uproot the country’s Maoist movement by the year 2022. This is the prime target they have set in launching 
the counter-revolutionary plan ‘Samadhan’ (‘Solution’) in May 2017. This so-called reactionary ‘solution’ involves 
the extermination of the people on a genocidal scale and the displacement of millions in the Adivasi areas across 
the country. This most cruel campaign has already resulted in a series of massacres in the Maoist movement areas 
like  Kalleda,  Badgaon,  Tadpal,  Aipeta,  Kasanur-Tumirgunda,  Timmenar  and  Nulkatong.  This  annihilation 
campaign is accompanied by the attempt to throttle the democratic and progressive voices in the urban areas in the 
name of curbing Maoism, so that no one dares to oppose the genocide in the forested hinterland of the country. It is 
beyond doubt, however, that just as the people have defeated similar fascist campaigns of the ruling classes like 
Janjagaran Abhiyan, Salwa Judum and Sendra in the past and has fought back the fascist Operation Green Hunt 
through a protracted resistance struggle by making huge sacrifices, they can certainly defeat this latest ‘Samadhan’ 
onslaught too through a united militant resistance in rural and urban areas by braving all forms of white terror and 
giving all sacrifice. This will go a long way in strengthening the ongoing countrywide people’s movement against 
Hindu-fascist forces. 
 
While condemning in the strongest words the continuous persecution of social activists and democrats by 
the government under baseless charges, the Central Committee of our Party hails the people’s resistance that foiled 
the fascist police crackdown to some extent. It conveys revolutionary greetings to all the democratic organisations, 
political  parties  and  individuals  of  the  country  that  have  daringly  stood  up  against  the  fascist  Modi-Fadnavis 
governments, RSS and their mercenary police forces to prevent the imprisonment of the social activists for the time 
being. But the struggle is far from over. All efforts must be made to revoke the unjust house-arrest of the activists 
and prevent their further persecution under any pretext, particularly in view of the possibility that the police will 
plant  incriminating  material  in  the  seized  electronic  devices  and  come  up  with  new  ‘proofs’  to  implicate  them. 
Similarly, the struggle for the release of the five other social activists incarcerated on the same charges since June 
must also be intensified. Moreover, getting the fabricated charges against all the activists scrapped or withdrawn 
should  be  an  important  aim  of  this  struggle.  It  is  through  such  a  widespread  people’s  struggle  that  the  fascist 
governments  can  be stopped  from  persecuting  other democrats and activists  of the  country  on  Bhima-Koregaon 
and similar fabricated cases in the coming days. Our Party appeals to all revolutionary, democratic, progressive, 
secular  and  patriotic  organisations  and  individuals  of  the  country,  various  oppressed  classes,  communities  and 
social  sections,  intellectuals,  lawyers,  journalists,  writers,  artists,  students,  youth,  women  and  the  people  of  all 
walks  of  life  to  unite  and  actively  participate  in  this  struggle  by  using  all  forms  of  struggle.  We  call  upon  the 
international friends of the people of India to stand in solidarity with this struggle by taking up campaigns for the 
persecuted social activists.  
  Down with the feudal-comprador Brahmanical Hindu-fascism!  
  Down  with  Modi  government  and  its  cohorts  the  Devendra  Fadnavis,  Raman  Singh,  Raghubar  Das                         

 

and K Chandrashekhar Rao governments for persecuting the country’s social activists and democrats!  

  Long live the countrywide united people’s movement against Hindutva-fascist BJP-Sangh Parivar!  
  Long live the anti-feudal, anti-imperialist and anti-fascist people’s democratic revolution! 
 

                                              

   

(Abhay) 

                                           Spokesperson 

                                           Central Committee 

                                            CPI(Maoist) 

 

2 

