COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

 

Press Release 

                                                                                                                                    November 3, 2009 

 

 

CHIDAMBARAM CANNOT FOOL PEOPLE WITH THE DRAMA OF TALKS 

AT GUN-POINT!  

AS LONG AS STATE TERROR AND MASSACRES OF UNARMED ADIVASIS 

CONTINUE THERE IS NO QUESTION OF TALKS!! 

Prime  Minister  Manmohan  Singh  and  Home  Minister  Chidambaram  have  been  putting  forth  the  most 
absurd proposal for talks with the CPI (Maoist) provided the latter abjured violence. While amassing thousands of 
paramilitary forces in the Maoist-dominated areas in the country and carrying out brutal attacks against unarmed 
adivasi people and the Maoist revolutionaries, they are shamelessly talking of violence by Maoists. According to 
the  grand  plan  of  the  reactionary  rulers  a  total  of  75,000  central  forces,  assisted  by  tactical  air  support  by  IAF 
choppers, will go to war by the end of this month. An equal number of police forces from the states will join these 
central  forces  to  carry  out  the  biggest  ever  military  offensive  against  the  people  in  general  and  the  Maoists  in 
particular.  While  deploying  such  a  huge  force,  which  is  greater  in  size  than  the  armies  of  most  countries  in  the 
world, Chidambaram is trying to fool the people that he is not going to war with the Maoists.  It is the state terror, 
saffron terror, and state-sponsored terror that have become the greatest threat to peace and security in our country. 
The Congress-led UPA government has to its credit the massacre of over 2000 people and Maoist revolutionaries 
in  the past five  years.  And yet, Manmohan and Chidambaram have the audacity  to say  that  their  government is 
implementing the “rule of law” and ask the Maoists to lay down arms and sit for talks.  

Asking  Maoists  to  lay  down  arms  as  a  pre-condition  for  talks  shows  the  utter  ignorance  of  Manmohan  and 
Chidambaram regarding the historical and socio-economic factors that had given rise to the Maoist movement or 
are too intoxicated by the brute force they possess by which they dream they can stamp out a movement rooted in 
the  socio-economic  causes.  The  CC,  CPI  (Maoist),  makes  it  crystal-clear  that  laying  down  arms  means  a 
betrayal  of  the  people’s  interests.  We  have  taken  up  arms  for  the  defence  of  people’s  rights  and  for 
achieving  their  liberation  from  all  types  of  exploitation  and  oppression.  As  long  as  oppression  and 
exploitation exist, people will continue to be armed in ever greater number. However, an agreement could 
be reached by both sides on a cease-fire if Manmohan and Chidambaram give up their irrational, illogical, 
impractical,  absurd  and  obstinate  stand  that  the  Maoists  should  abjure  violence.  They  should  be 
introspective and decide whether they are prepared to abjure state terror and unbridled violence on the people. If 
at all they are serious about talks then they should first create a conducive atmosphere by earnestly implementing 
at least what is guaranteed by the Indian constitution by which they swear.   

They should stop illegal  abductions of Maoists and people suspected to be supporting Maoists. They  should put 
an immediate halt to torture and murder of unarmed people, instruct their so-called security forces to desist from 
raping  women  in  Maoist-dominated  areas,  abandon  their  policy  of  destroying  the  property  of  the  people  and 
burning  adivasi  villages.  They  should  withdraw  the  police  and  para-military  camps  from  the  school  buildings, 
panchayat community buildings and from the interior areas so as to instill a sense of security among the people. 
They should disband the state-sponsored armed vigilante gangs like  salwa judum, sendra, gram suraksha samiti, 
nagarik  suraksha  samiti,  shanti  sena,  harmad  bahini,  and  other  blood-thirsty  mercenary  gangs  that  are 
unconstitutionally  established  by  the  police  top  brass  and  the  ruling  class  parties.  An  impartial  judicial 
commission  of  enquiry  should  be  formed  to  go  into  the  inhuman  atrocities  by  the  police,  CRPF,  other  central 
forces  and  the  vigilante  gangs  on  Maoists  and  the  people  at  large  and  basing  on  the  investigations  the  culprits 
should  be  punished  as  per  the  law.  All  those  arrested  for  being  Maoists  or  on  suspicion  of  aiding  the  Maoists, 
including  people  in  particular  who  do  not  have  any  connection  with  our  organisation,  should  be  released 
unconditionally. They should repeal all draconian laws and Acts such as the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act 
(UAPA),  Chhattisgarh  Special  Powers  Act,  Armed  Forces  Special  Powers  Act  (AFSPA),  etc.  They  should 
disband  the  government-organised  concentration  camps  in  the  name  of  rehabilitation  of  the  adivasis  displaced 
from  their  villages,  pay  adequate  compensation  to  over  two  lakh  adivasis  who  were  forcibly  displaced  by  the 
salwa  judum  gangs  and  the  CRPF-police  combine.  All  those  who  have  become  victims  of  state  and  state-
sponsored terror, i.e., those who were murdered, maimed, raped and pushed into a state of mental trauma should 
be given adequate compensation.  

As for socio-economic issues, the lands of the tribals should be handed back to them wherever they are snatched 
from  them;  the  mining  and  other  so-called  development  projects  that  lead  to  displacement  of  the  tribals  and 
destruction  of  their  way  of  life  should  be  immediately  disbanded.  All  the  MOUs  signed  with  the  imperialist 
MNCs like Vedanta and the big business houses like the Tatas, Mittals, Essar, Jindal, etc should be scrapped. The 
much trumpeted policy of Special Economic Zones which is nothing but to create enclaves of foreign occupation 
and imperialist plunder that ruin havoc in the social, economic, ecologic and cultural lives of the people living in 
these areas should be immediately scrapped along with the colonial policy of land acquisition. The lands snatched 
away from the tribals by unscrupulous landlords, other non-adivasis, and by the government should be restored to 
their  rightful  owners.  If  these  are  fulfilled,  then  one  can  think  of  talks  to  discuss  on  the  deeper  issues  that  are 
blocking the real development of our country. 

The CC, CPI (Maoist) unequivocally asserts that the government’s proposal for peace talks is only a propaganda 
ploy that in no way differs from the peace proposals of Hitler prior to World War II. After the Cabinet Committee 
on Security had given the final approval for the massive offensive against the Maoists, after the IAF choppers are 
ready with the Garuda commandos and gunships to pulverize the adivasi areas, these war-mongers are talking of 
peace!  We  appeal  to  all  democratic  and  peace-loving  forces  to  expose  the  hypocrisy  and  double-speak  of 
Manmohan,  Chidambaram,  Raman  Singh,  Buddhadeb  and  others  and  oppose  their  war  preparations  against  the 
oppressed downtrodden people of our country who are waging a struggle for land, livelihood and liberation from 
inhuman feudal and imperialist exploitation.  

  

 

Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI(Maoist)
 

