COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

Central Committee 

Press Release
 

January 1, 2018 

Raise voice against the namesake Constitution! 

Fight bravely for the formation of a new society and a new Constitution! 

 

 

Dear people, 

January 26th, 1950 is said to be the Republic day of India. For the rulers who celebrate transfer of power on 
August 15th, 1947 as Independence Day, this is a day of Republic. The rulers are happy that the Indian Constitution is 
the biggest written Constitution in the world. But in fact half of the total 395 articles in it were taken from the 
Constitution of the British and the rest from that of other countries. This duplicate Constitution gave many 
assurances including fundamental rights and directive principles. None of those that the Constitution assured the 
citizens of India are being implemented. They are on paper but the people never experienced them. The history of 
67 years of Republic India proved this. All the people must raise their voice high that they do not need a namesake 
constitution. It is time the lovers of constitution realize the fakeness of it. Our Party said way back that it is not worth 
more than a toilet paper. Our Party appeals on the eve of the 68th Republic Day celebrations to bury such a 
constitution and to fight bravely for the formation of a new system and a new constitution. 

For the last three years of the rule of Hindutwa forces they have been unprecedentedly praising the 

constitution. We have been seeing the diehard saffron terrorist and the Prime Minister of the country Modi highly 
praising Ambedkar known as the architect of constitution on the eve of his birth and death anniversaries. Lovers of 
constitution must remember that Ambedkar wailed that he worked as an instrument in the formulation of 
constitution and against his opinions. Moreover, he declared that if the constitution is being utilized in a wrong way 
he shall be the first person to put it to flames. We remind you that in the present time you must dare to do this. If 
not so, the saffron brigade might do it silently and declare Bhagavadgeetha as the constitution of the country. 

Modi decided to celebrate Republic Day in a grander manner in 2018 than in the past three years. The 

reason behind this can be easily understood in the background of demystification of the illusions in the ordinary 
people in constitution and their increasing questions on it. This time they are inviting the leaders of many countries 
for the Republic Day celebrations. The present rulers need to do so. Due to the increasing aggressiveness of the 
Hindutva forces in the country they are losing their prestige and so they are striving to show that they abide the 
constitution. All lovers of constitution must expose this in a united manner. Otherwise, as the great Marx warned, 
‘the rule of the ruling class would turn as stable and dangerous as the extent to which it embeds the intellectuals of 
the class being ruled’. 

Our country is said to be a Sovereign, Democratic Republic and after many years the rulers are deceiving the 

people with words like Socialist and Secular. More than thirty to forty per cent of the voters in the so called 
democratic country are not utilizing their right to vote. The people of Kashmir that was forcibly included in this 
country are still fighting for ‘Azad Kashmir’ (Freedom for Kashmir) and are boycotting elections. This is the kind of 
our Republic. The people of the North East are bravely facing the Indian Armies for their right to self-determination 
and right to separate and have burnt the constitution many times in protest. It is a shame to say that our country has 
a Socialist Republic constitution. 

Brahmanism commented secularism in our country in a quite intelligent way. It distorted the meaning of 

secularism and is raising high the flag of Hindutwa giving it the meaning of ‘equality of all religions’. In our country 

with secular constitution thirty people lost their lives in the violence instigated in the name of protection of cow. 
There were 70 mob lynching incidents. The Social media reports that 98 per cent of these happened under the rule 
of Modi and 70 per cent of the murdered were Muslims. Mahammad Akhlak of Dadri, people’s singer Mahammad 
Khan of Jai Salmer district, worker Afrad of Rajasamund district of Rajasthan and many such Muslims were killed. 
This is the barbarity in this secular country posing to be a place of equality of all religions. Meanwhile the violence of 
the Hindutwa forces on the Dalits are increasingly becoming very barbaric, insulting and a shame to the civilized 
society. Mahesh Thakur of Azadpur village of Nalanda district of Bihar was forced to lick the earth. Jayed Solanki, a 
Dalit of Gujarat was murdered for his big whiskers. In Kashmir the army personnel cut the hair of girls. Such incidents 
do not highlight secular, equalitarian constitution but the Chathurvarna system and the pathetic situation of the 
castes. So it is time for the oppressed to think what to do with this constitution except to destroy it. The 
fundamental rights to talk gather and press mentioned in the third part of the Indian Constitution are being violated 
each and every day. The directive principles that have been formulated with the aim of welfare state are like moral 
statements left to the mercy of the rulers and lovers of constitution know the fakeness of it more than us. The recent 
fatwa of Hindu Makkal Kachi that the rights activist of Manipuri, Irom Sharmila shall not be allowed to stay in 
Kodaikanal for the ‘guilt’ of marrying British citizen Desmond Koutinho reveals that the fundamental right of the 
citizens of the country to stay according to their wish depends on the discretion of the Hindutwa forces. Such events 
show that the constitution should have been burnt long back as per the warning of Ambedkar, the author of 
Constitution. 

It is boasted that democracy in this country stands on three pillars. The first of these the Legislative bodies 

were alleged to have turned to be nothing by the ex-President of India, Pranab Mukherjee. Speaker of Lok Sabha 
Sumithra Mahajan said the state of affairs in the Parliament meeting need a scale to control. These reveal the 
democratic consciousness of the formulators of the legislations. Our country is full of big feudal lords and a 
bourgeoisie that did not participate in democratic revolutions and so how shall the Legislative bodies have such 
consciousness? The executive class that works for this class naturally tries to implement fascist rule. The oppressed 
people lost confidence on the judiciary long time back. The recent release of saffron terrorists from jail reveals that 
the court declares the criminals of the ruling party not guilty, however big the criminals belonging to that party is. 
While the earlier government handed over sixteen cases like the Malegaon explosion of Maharashtra to the recent 
explosions in Modasa district of Gujarat to NIA saying them to have been committed by high profiles, Saadhvi 
Prayaga, Lieutenant Colonel Purohit, Dayanand Pande, Pragna Thakur and other such saffron terrorists and their 
bosses became not guilty in Modi’s rule. This only reveals the attitude of the judiciary. The judiciary sentenced the 
Dalit youth involved in the Kopardi case to death, pronounced life imprisonment for the adivasis of Gadchiroli district 
and few intellectuals in false cases. But the punishments to the Hindutwa forces that indulged in massacre in Naroda 
Patiya in Gujarat in 2002 and those involved in the killing of Bilkis Bano’s three year old child and her family and 
committing mass rape on her reveals the partial nature of the judiciary. Bilkis Bano said she is living with a 
confidence on secularists in the country and this statement increases your responsibilities manifold. The murders of 
Dabolkar to Gowri Lankesh tell us the state of journalists, writers and democratic secular intellectuals if the media 
that is said to be the fourth estate of democracy does not take the side of the ruling class. Social activist Kancha 
Ilaiah of Telangana, journalist Vinod Varma of Chhattisgarh and other such 14 people were foisted with false cases 
and are behind bars. It is nothing but self-deception and deceiving others to say this country is a republic. 

Democrats, secularists and lovers of constitution! 

You have been protesting in various forms against the aggressions of the Hindutwa forces since they came to 

power in the centre. Well known people are returning their awards to the government. You must boycott the 
Republic Day celebrations of 2018 explaining the increasing intensity of the danger of the Hindutwa forces on the 
oppressed masses in the country. Condemn severely the inviting of the representatives of foreign corporate classes 
to pave way for looting the resources of the country, not caring the survival of the indigenous people who have been 
preserving these resources for generations. Declare this constitution fake and make true the warning of Ambedkar 
that ‘…..those who suffer from inequalities blast the political democratic organization that this constitutional 
assembly built with great labor’. 

The anti-people fascist policies of the rulers of the country make them not to abide constitution. The first 

citizen of the country President Ramnath and Vice-President Venkayyanaidu are talking high of Modi. The anti-
people fascist policies in the country are not allowing the people to abide the laws. The peasantry of India that 
committed suicides in the past is now taking up militant struggles. Students, teachers, government employees and 
workers are taking up struggles for the fulfillment of their demands. The soldiers of Indian Army are announcing 
their difficulties to the world through internet and are demonstrating the form of Modi’s rule. Suicides and homicide 
are on the rise in police forces. A policeman of Basaguda police station of Bijapur district recently killed four officers. 
All these reveal the intensifying revolutionary conditions in the country. In such a situation let all of us fight bravely 
for a new society and a new constitution. 

 

 

Abhay 
Spokesperson 
Central Committee 

