 

 

      COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

      CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release 

 

 

24 December 2017 

Down with the shameful betrayal and surrender of Jinugu Narasimha Reddy!  

Long live the revolutionary tradition of uncompromising struggle and selfless sacrifice! 

The revolution will surge forward sweeping aside all kinds of muck on its path! 

 
Jinugu Narasimha Reddy (Jhampanna, Rajesh), a member of the Central Committee (CC) 
of our Party, has surrendered before the enemy along with his wife Navatha (Jaya) (Divisional 
Committee Member) on 23 December. He had already lost confidence in the invincibility of the 
proletarian ideology, the Maoist party, the Protracted People’s War, the revolutionary movement 
and  the  oppressed  masses.  Unable  to  face  the  new  and  difficult  conditions  of  class  struggle 
brought by objective changes and the enemy’s intensifying all-round offensive, he chose the most 
selfish, heinous and cowardly path of desertion and shamelessly knelt down before the enemy. 
This is an outright betrayal of the Indian proletariat, its vanguard Party, the Indian revolution and 
the heroic struggle of the country’s toiling masses. It is an affront on the sacrifice of thousands of 
revolutionary martyrs who have selflessly laid down their lives fighting the same class enemy 
whom Rajesh has now so shamelessly embraced. With this, his three decades of political life in 
the revolutionary movement has come to an ignominious end. Our CC condemns his betrayal in 
strongest terms and appeals to the rank and file of the Party, the entire revolutionary camp, the 
vast struggling masses and the friends of the Indian revolution to reject outright such renegades 
and their abominable path of surrender. Undeterred by the degeneration and fall of Narasimha 
Reddy, our CC firmly and unambiguously renews its pledge to resolutely carry forward the great 
red banner of class struggle in pursuance of our Party’s immediate and ultimate aims. 

Narasimha Reddy had joined the revolutionary movement in the early 1980s when he was 
working  in  a  factory  as  a  technician  in  Hyderabad  city.  He  later  became  a  professional 
revolutionary and was sent by the Party to work as a guerrilla squad member in Eturunagaram 
forest  area  of  Warangal  district.  Subsequently,  he  developed  to  a  squad  commander,  Area 
Committee Member, District Committee member and District Committee Secretary in the period 
between  1986  and  1995.  North  Telangana  Special  Zonal  Committee  (NTSZC)  was  formed  in 
1995 to develop the guerrilla war in that zone with the perspective of building base area. He was 
elected to the NTSZC in its first conference held that year. In 2000, he became the Secretary of 
NTSZC and continued to work in this capacity till 2007. He was elected to the CC in 2001 and 
worked as a CCM in North Telangana between 2001 and 2007. He was co-opted to the CMC in 
2007  and  worked  in  North  Telangana  and  some  other  parts  of  the  Central  Region.  He  was 
transferred to Odisha in 2011 where he continued to work till the end of 2016. For the last one 
year he was deeply submerged in ideological and political vacillation and finally informed the 
concerned CCMs in November 2017 about his decision to surrender. 

It  is  true  that  Narasimha  Reddy  had  participated  in  the  revolutionary  movement  for  a 
relatively long period of over three decades and developed politically to become a member of its 
highest leading committee, the CC, contributing to the movement in the process. But at the same 
time,  he  also  had  several  serious  weaknesses,  limitations  and  non-proletarian  trends  like 
individualism,  bureaucracy  and  false  prestige  that  continued  throughout  his  political  life. 
Comrades who worked with him in the guerrilla squad and the Party committees or the leadership 
comrades  continuously  struggled  against  these  negative  aspects  of  his  all  this  time.  The 
concerned committees put efforts at every step to rectify him and he too accepted many of the 
criticisms  in  one  way  or  another.  But  his  weaknesses,  mistakes  and  limitations  had  persisted. 
Particularly  in  the  last  few  years,  these  negative  aspects  got  magnified  and  finally  became 

 

1 

 

 
dominant under the present difficult condition of the Party and the movement. The terror of the 
enemy had so overtaken him that he could no longer fulfil the tasks given to him by the Party. He 
refused  to  attend  important  meetings  with  the  excuse  of  probable  enemy  attacks  even  though 
other  comrades  in  a  similar  situation  did  not  share  such  unfounded  apprehension.  Apart  from 
comrades in higher committees, his protection comrades too criticised his panicky behaviour and 
defeatism. The prevailing conditions and enemy’s serious offensive demand that the leadership 
comrades  of  the  Party  at  the  highest  level  remain  firm  and  confident  in  the  battlefield  and 
courageously safeguard themselves as an inseparable part of safeguarding the Party, PLGA and 
the movement. This has to be done in all spheres of revolutionary work including in the military 
sphere. But as a CCM, Narasimha Reddy failed to live up to the higher level of responsibilities 
and  tasks  given  him  by  the  Party  displaying  heightened  political  consciousness,  preparedness, 
courage, discipline, selfless sacrifice, self-critical attitude and other leadership qualities.  

Our  CC  reviewed  Narasimha  Reddy’s  work  in  view  of  his  persistent  weaknesses  and 
limitations  that  had  reached  a  serious  level.  The  CC  concluded  that  he  was  seriously  bogged 
down by subjectivism, resulting in his overestimation of the enemy and an underestimation of the 
revolutionary movement and the people. He had lost his bearing and sense of proportion, became 
incapable  of  analysing  the  objective  situation  as  a  member  of  the  Party’s  leading  committee, 
repeatedly  followed  wrong  organisational  method  and  utterly  failed  to  fulfil  important 
responsibilities  he  was  entrusted  with.  This  was  in  addition  to  his  long-standing  weakness  of 
imposing his subjective and individualistic thinking on Party committees. It had become a habit 
for  him  to  bring  up  disputes  and  illogical  debates  on  individual  problems  in  a  sectarian  and 
arbitrary way, violating democratic centralism and proletarian discipline. Sometimes he created 
deadlock  in  the  functioning  of  the  concerned  Party  committee  and  threatened  to  boycott  some 
meetings  when  criticised  by  other  comrades.  Due  to  his  anti-organisational  behaviour  and 
functioning,  he  gradually  lost  the  confidence  of  his  comrades  and  became  isolated.  All  these 
wrong  traits  were  criticised  by  the  comrades  of  the  concerned  Party  committees  on  several 
occasions with the aim of helping him rectify his mistakes and weaknesses on the basis of unity-
struggle-unity. But he failed to recognise the gravity of his negative aspects, stubbornly refused to 
take a self-critical attitude, failed to remould his world outlook in the light of Marxism-Leninism-
Maoism. This not only led to his downfall but also caused much damage to the Party. 

Taking all this into consideration, our CC decided to suspend Narasimha Reddy from the 
CC  for  two years  earlier  this year  with  the  hope that  he  would  acknowledge  his  mistakes  and 
weaknesses and seriously put efforts to rectify with the help of his comrades. However, he neither 
accepted this decision positively nor did he undertake any self-criticism at all. He also refused to 
take up the responsibility of a State Committee Member the CC had assigned him. After the CC 
took  the  decision  to  suspend  him,  Narasimha  Reddy  opportunistically  raised  the  issue  of  his 
‘political differences’ with the party line. He claimed that India is no longer a semi-colonial semi-
feudal country and it has transformed into a capitalist country. Therefore, he said that our party 
line  should  be  changed  according  to  these  conditions  and  the  party  should  take  the  line  of 
insurrection in the present conditions of the country. He did not discuss these views in the party 
forum but only with some individual comrades. Those comrades suggested to him that he should 
raise  and  discuss  it  in  the  party’s  forum  to  settle  the  issue. But  he  was  not  ready  for  this  and 
deserted the party. It proved that these so-called political differences are nothing but an excuse to 
cover up his ideological-political degeneration. Overcome by petty-bourgeois false prestige and 
selfish  narrow-mindedness,  he  refused  to  submit  to  the  Party’s  decision,  declined  to  struggle 
against  the  non-proletarian  traits  present  in  him  and  failed  to  remould  himself  into  a 
thoroughgoing  communist  revolutionary.  Rather  than  humbly  serving  the  revolution  and  the 
people with bowed head, he deemed it better to surrender and survive as a dirty creature at the 
service of the enemy. In this way, the transformation of a revolutionary into an unrepentant and 
diehard betrayer and scoundrel was complete. 

All revolutions pass through twists and turns, ups and downs and difficult situations. It is 
only by boldly tiding over such challenges that a proletarian party gets steeled and acquires the 

 

2 

 

 
capability to lead the revolution to victory. In periods like this, it becomes all the more necessary 
for  all  communists  –  particularly  those  who  join  the  Communist  Party  from  non-proletarian 
classes  –  to  deepen  their  ideological  and  political  understanding,  to  remould  themselves  by 
adopting  the  proletarian  world  outlook  and  to  firmly  stick  to  it.  They  need  to  more  resolutely 
apply the principle democratic centralism, abide by the iron discipline of the Party, more closely 
integrate with the comrades and the people, learn from practice, rectify their mistakes, fight self, 
serve  the  people  selflessly  and  stand  at  the  forefront  of  struggle  so  as  to  remain  a  committed 
revolutionary till the very end. But there are always those who fail in such testing times. History 
shows that it is quite common for a handful of individuals who do not remould themselves and 
who  are  not  prepared  for  sacrifice  to  distance  themselves  from  the  movement  at  such  crucial 
junctures, giving foremost priority to their own survival. They desert the revolutionary camp and 
at times become counter-revolutionaries serving the enemy. Narasimha Reddy presents a glaring 
negative  example  of  a  revolutionary  who  stopped  integrating  with  the  cadres  and  the  masses, 
stopped struggling against his weaknesses and became overawed by the enemy. Panic-stricken, 
they pathetically prostrate before the class enemy and thereby end their usefulness for the people 
with their own hands. The revolution will discard such people as waste material and throw them 
out from time to time in the process of class struggle.  

It should not be surprising if such despicable individuals start singing in the tune of the 
enemy and cast aspersions on the Party, its leadership, the revolutionary movement and the future 
of the Indian revolution. Propped up by the enemy, they may appear before the people in new 
avatars  as  (pseudo)  ‘intellectuals’,  ‘journalists’,  ‘social  workers’,  etc.  with  the  sole  aim  of 
harming  the  Party  and  the  revolution.  Our  comrades,  friends  and  well-wishers  of  the  Indian 
revolution should remain alert to such eventualities and give befitting response to them. Knowing 
them to be a part of the enemy’s Goebbelsian propaganda machine, the class-conscious toiling 
masses should throw the claptrap of such traitors into the scrapheap. 

In total contrast to the traitors and renegades, every proletarian revolution brings forward 
uncompromising communist fighters who serve the masses till the last breath. Indian revolution 
too is no exception, which inherits a long and glorious tradition of selfless sacrifice by thousands 
of heroic martyrs. Among them are our beloved great leaders and cadres like comrades CM and 
KC,  Saroj  Dutta,  Sushital  Roy  Choudhuri,  Amulya  Sen,  Chandrashekhar  Das,  Krishnamurthy, 
Satyam,  Kailasham,  Appu,  Varghese,  Biswakarma,  Balan,  Dinakar,  Shyam,  Mahesh,  Murali, 
Karam Singh, Parimal Sen, Sande Rajamouli, Vadkapur Chandramouli, Anuradha Ghandy, Patel 
Sudhakar, Cherukuri Rajkumar, Mallujhola Koteswarlu, Rawoof, Sushil Roy, Sridhar Srinivasan, 
Kuppu  Devaraj,  Narayan  Sanyal,  Padma,  Lalithakka,  Urmila,  Rajitha,  Ajitha,  Saketh  Rajan, 
Maimuddin, Ashish Yadav, Prasad, Daya, Prabhakar, Mangtu, Shaheeda, RK, Yadanna, Madhav, 
Mahendar, Mastan Rao, Puli Anjanna, Kanchan, Sashadhar Mahato, Janardhan, Bhumaiyya-Kista 
Gaud and thousands of other martyred comrades, to name just a few, who remained true to their 
commitment to the revolution and the people till the very end. They are the real heroes of the 
masses who show us the way.  

The desertion, betrayal and treachery of a few renegades in the pay-role of the reactionary 
ruling classes can never stop the revolution! They may only create some temporary hurdles and 
inflict some temporary damage, but the revolution will sweep all such pests into their graves and 
surge forward towards its goal. Led by the proletarian revolutionaries and inspired by the heroic 
martyrs,  millions  upon  millions  of  the  oppressed masses  of  the country will  throw  them  away 
along with their masters into the dustbin of history and achieve final victory.  
 

 
 

(Abhay) 

Spokesperson 

Central Committee 

CPI(Maoist) 

 

3 

