      COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

      CENTRAL REGIONAL BUREAU 

Observe Protest Week in Memory  

of the Kassanur and Aipenta Martyrs! 

Make Successful the Protest Week from 19 to 25 May and  

Bandh on 25 May in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra,                             

Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha! 

 
 

 

 

1-5-2018 

 
Dear people, 
 
 
The last week of April 2018 will be known as a very sad week in the history of the 
revolutionary movement in Dandakaranya. On 22 April of this week, 40 revolutionaries and 
people were brutally killed  by the C-60 commandos from Gadchiroli in Maharashtra in the 
forests of Halbi Timirgunda village in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh. The martyrs include 
South  Gadchiroli  Divisional  Committee  Secretary  Comarde  Srinu  (Vijendra),  Divisional 
Committee members Comrades Nandu (Vasudev Atram) and Sainath (Dolesh Atram), Aheri 
Area Committee Secretary Lata (Mahri Vadde), Squad Commander Comrade Shanti (Mangli 
Padda), Comrades Jamuna, Lalita, Limmi, Chandrakala, Radha, Rukmati, Kranti, Janki, Soni, 
Pushpa, Reshma, Anita, Manda, Jaisheela, Kartik, Rajesh, Pradip, Sandeep, Nagesh, Sannu, 
Tirupati,  Ajay,  Vijay,  Sanjay,  Srikant  and  eight  youths  of  Gattepalli  village  including  six 
women and two men. They were fired upon at a single spot. While five comrades breathed 
their  last at the spot itself, six out of eleven  injured  comrades were taken to the  forests of 
Khandla-Rajaram and shot dead by the team of Additional SP Maheshwar Reddy. The rest of 
the injured comrades were killed in a similar manner as well. Eight more comrades lost their 
lives at Aipenta in Bijapur district on 27 April. Two persons including a man and a woman 
were  killed  by  the  police  in  a  fake  encounter  near  Dullor  village  of  Sukma  district  on  29 
April.  Central  Regional  Bureau  (CRB)  pays  its  humble  red  homage  to  all  the  above-
mentioned  martyrs  and  reaffirms  its  pledge  to  fulfil  their  aspirations.  CRB  appeals  to  the 
people to observe Protest Week  from 19 to 25  May  in  memory of the revolutionaries  and 
people who selflessly laid down their invaluable lives for the masses. 
 
The NDA government is very aggressively carrying out brutal attacks in all the states 
where  the  Maoist  movement  is  active.  After  conducting  ‘Operation  Green  Hunt’  for  eight 
years,  it  is  now  implementing  the  ‘Samadhan’  strategy.  Hundreds  of  villagers  and  tens  of 
revolutionaries have been killed. In spite of this, the revolutionary  movement has  not only 
continued  but  is  in  fact  spreading  to  newer  areas.  Worried  by  this,  the  government  is 
preparing  special  ‘Missions’  every  year  and  intensifying  its  armed  offensive.  Using 
helicopters  extensively  in  various  roles,  it  is  introducing  aerial  attacks  as  well.  The  attack 
carried  out  jointly  by  the  Indian  Air  Force,  central  paramilitary  forces  and  the  commando 
forces of Telangana and Chhattisgarh in Pujarikanker on Chhattisgarh-Telangana border is a 
proof  of  this.  It  is  stepping  up  attacks  by  using  UAVs  widely.  It  is  strengthening  mobile 
network even in the forest regions. Moreover, it is making informers out of some unemployed 
lumpen elements of the villages, family members of those who have been punished  by the 
people in the course of the movement, families of policemen and reactionary tribal elders by 

 

1 

enticing  them with the promise of  money,  jobs and  protection. The government forces are 
carrying out attacks and massacres by mainly basing themselves on the intelligence provided 
by such informers. The central government held a meeting with the participation of the army 
and top police, civil and judicial officers of the Maoist struggle areas in May 2017 in Delhi 
and  chalked  out  the  strategy  of  ‘Samadhan’  with  the  aim  of  wiping  out the  revolutionary 
movement. It has set the deadline of making India Maoist-free by 2022. The present attacks 
are a result of this. Our Party appeals to the people to condemn and resist these attacks and 
defend the revolutionary movement by standing firmly on its side. 
 
There  is  an  integral  link  between  the  growing  attacks,  massacres  and  severe 
punishment of comrades incarcerated in the jails in the movement areas on the one hand and 
the  economic  crisis  that  is  deepening  throughout  the  world  on  the  other.  The  exploitative 
ruling classes are in a hurry to loot the natural resources of the country on a large scale to 
come out of the economic crisis besetting the country and the world. Functionaries of central 
and all the state governments are competing with one another to frequent foreign countries 
within a short span of time to auction the country’s resources. They are concluding tens of 
agreements  with  various  capitalist,  imperialist  governments  and  multinational  companies. 
They are  busy  in providing  all the basic amenities to these  foreign and  domestic hawks  in 
order  to  reap  quick  results  as  per  the  promises  made  to  them.  They  are  intensifying  the 
attacks  on  the  masses  by  using  police  and  paramilitary  forces  to  complete  infrastructural 
projects. The exploitative ruling classes are violating their own laws with impunity and are 
suppressing the civil and democratic rights. They are wiping out the very signs of PESA and 
Gram Sabhas in the Adivasi areas. On the other hand, they are spreading illusions among the 
masses  by  repeating  the  sugar-coated  mantra  of  “development”.  Modi,  Raman  Singh, 
Devendra  Fadnavis, Raghubar Das, Chandrababu Naidu, Pinarayi Vijayan, Naveen Patnaik 
and Chandrashekhar Rao are in the forefront of this. The rulers are least concerned about the 
burning  problems  of  the  country  such  as  skyrocketing  prices  of  the  goods  of  daily  need, 
growing  unemployment,  farmer’s  suicide,  starvation  deaths,  atrocities  and  corruption 
scandals,  etc.  They  are  not  bothered  about  the  welfare  of  the  people  but  only  about  the 
development of the ruling classes and the wealthy families. 
 
While  the  people  are  fighting  these  life-and-death  problems  on  the  one  hand,  the 
attacks  of  the  Hindutva  forces  are  intensifying  in  the  country  on  the  other.  Hundreds  of 
attacks have been perpetrated by these forces in the last four years, in which several Muslims, 
Dalits and Adivasis have lost their lives and many more have lost their property. People of all 
sections  of  the  society  are  coming  under  Hindutva  attack.  In  spite  of  this,  the  rulers  have 
refused to resolve the problems of the people as they are only interested in the people’s votes. 
 
The growth of political awareness, people’s movements and democratic movements 
along with the revolutionary movement in the country have not allowed these oppressors to 
play their game of plunder as per their wishes. The people are fighting much more militantly 
than before. The People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) is standing with the people and 
is  fighting  with  renewed determination and  dedication. Our Party  is  mobilising  the  masses 
and  carrying  out  struggles  by  exposing  the  anti-people  policies  of  the  exploitative  ruling 
classes  from  time  to  time.  The  masses  in  the  areas  of  the  revolutionary  movement  in 
particular are fighting with the spirit of self-sacrifice and courage to build a new democratic 
system  in  the  country  by  forming  people’s  governments  in  place  of  the  exploitative 
government. 
 
Today the trust of the exploited and oppressed masses of the country on our Party is 
deepening. That is why the exploitative ruling classes are identifying our Party as the most 
dangerous force. Their governments have failed to resolve the problems of the people in the 
last seventy years, but are hell bent on physically eliminating the Maoist revolutionaries at 
the  same  time.  But the  revolutionary  movement  will  continue  in  various  forms  as  long  as 

 

2 

exploitation and oppression continues in the society. The class enemies will step back to the 
extent the people will be ready for unparalleled sacrifice. This is a historic truth. The people 
will not spare the betrayers who have become a scourge for the lives of revolutionaries by 
falling  for  the  greed  of  police  dole-outs.  We  appeal  to  the  revolutionary  masses  on  this 
occasion to come out to the streets and register their protest against the Kassanur and Aipenta 
massacres in various forms.  
 
Democrats, journalists, civil rights activists and students-youths, 
 

 
You all had got mobilised on a war-footing and brought the facts to light against the 
massacre  of  31  comrades  by  the  Greyhound  commandos  of  Andhra  Pradesh  Police  at 
Ramguda  of  Odisha  in  October  2016.  Massacres  on  an  even  bigger  scale  are  being 
perpetrated today. Our Party CPI(Maoist) calls upon you to come forward to investigate these 
massacres  immediately  and  to  participate  in  the  just  struggle  for  the  punishment  of  the 
perpetrators. You too are facing fascist attacks. You too are being arrested, denied bail and 
put  behind  bars  for  long  durations.  You too  are  being  attacked  and  a  few  among  you  are 
being killed. In spite of all this, our Party has full confidence on you and believes that you 
will firmly stand by the people and the people’s movements with conviction and courage.  
 
Observe Protest Week from 19 to 25 May and Bandh on 25 May in memory of Kassanur 

Expose the pro-imperialist and anti-people policies of the central and state governments! 
Condemn  the  state  repression  unleashed  on  the  revolutionary,  national  liberation  and 

Bring forth the facts behind  Kassanur and Aipenta massacres and demand punishment 

Organise  memorial  meetings  and  programmes  in  commemoration  of  Kassanur  and 

Aipenta martyrs and hold high their sacrifice! Take pledge to fulfil their aspirations! 

With revolutionary greetings, 

 
 
 
 

(Pratap) 

Spokesperson 

Central Regional Bureau 

Communist Party of India (Maoist) 

3 

and Aipenta martyrs! 

democratic movements! 

for the guilty! 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

