      COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

      CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Statement 

 

 

Red Salutes to Comrade Arvind, one of the Leaders of                                                             

the Indian Revolution and Politburo Member of CPI(Maoist)! 

 
4 May 2018 

 

Comrade Arvind was born in a middle peasant family of Jehanabad district in Bihar. He 

The life of Comrade Arvind from the time of coming to politics in 1973-74 till his martyrdom 

Comrade Arvind (Sujit, Nishant), one of the leaders of the Indian revolution and member of 
the Politburo of the Central Committee of CPI(Maoist), breathed his last in the third week of March 
2018 after prolonged illness. He was 65.  
   
completed his B.Sc. in Patna. He joined and actively participated in the student and youth movement 
that had erupted on the scene during his graduation days. In this course he was attracted to 
revolutionary politics. He joined with some other communists and formed Communist Krantikari 
Sangathan (CKS). They merged with the erstwhile CPI(M-L)(PU) and developed as one of its Central 
Committee (CC) members. After the merger of CPI(M-L)(PW) and CPI(M-L)(PU), he worked as a 
CC member of the united CPI(M-L)[PW]. Following the merger of CPI(M-L)[PW] and MCCI, he 
worked as a member of the CC and the Central Military Commission (CMC) of the unified 
CPI(Maoist). In the fourth meeting of the CC held in 2013, he was co-opted as a Politburo member. 
He worked in this capacity till he was martyred due to heart attack after suffering from Diabetes and 
Blood Pressure for a long time. The CC, CPI(Maoist), pays its humble red homage to Comrade 
Arvind and takes pledge to continue the fight to fulfil his aspirations till the last breath. Our CC shares 
the grief of his family and friends and conveys them its heartfelt condolences. 
 
has been full of struggle. In every step, every turn and every moment he remained on the side of 
progressive and revolutionary change. His four-decade long revolutionary life was inseparably 
connected to the revolutionary movement of Bihar and the Indian revolution and brought several 
experiences. His political life cannot be seen in isolation from the contemporary political situation, 
class struggle, mobilisation of lakhs of people in anti-feudal struggles, the strategy and tactics as 
formulated and applied in his area and field of work, state and Regional Bureau, his many struggles 
for the correct line and against the incorrect line, and the expansion of the revolutionary movement 
from smaller areas to vast rural and strategic areas. 
 
From democratic politics to revolutionary politics: Many people’s movements erupted in the first 
half of the 1970s against the autocratic rule of Indira Gandhi government – a representative of the 
exploitative ruling classes. Lakhs of students and youths participated in these struggles militantly. 
Comrade participated in these movements as an energetic activist. There was a great impact of the 
Naxalbari peasant movement throughout the country in those days. At that time, there was also quite a 
good impact of Comrade Jowhar who was martyred as the Secretary of the State Committee of 
CPI(ML) in the course of leading the historic Bhojpur armed agrarian struggle by upholding Comrade 
CM’s line. People like Comrade Arvind came into revolutionary politics under the influence of these 
two factors by holding high the line of Comrade CM and keeping faith in it. He and some other 
comrades formed the Communist Krantikari Sangathan (CKS) during 1977-79 with an attitude of 
rectifying the errors that had cropped up in that line. This was the first step in Comrade’s Arvind’s 
political life. 
 
As a leader of the armed agrarian revolutionary movement: Communist revolutionaries in their 
hundreds came out of jail throughout the country after the lifting of the Emergency. Some comrades 
under the leadership of Comrade Narayan Sanyal and others formed CPI(M-L)(Party Unity) in 

 

1 

After Comrade Arvind joined the revolutionary party through efforts for upholding the correct 

November 1978 with the single agenda of uniting all the genuine revolutionaries. One group of CKS 
under the leadership of Comrade Arvind established contact with Comrade Narayan Sanyal-led 
CPI(M-L)(PU). These two groups merged in 1980 to form CPI(M-L)(Unity Organisation). It became 
CPI(M-L)(PU) after the inclusion of some more revolutionaries from Punjab in January 1982. This 
was the second step in Comrade Arvind’s revolutionary life. 
 
line, it helped to initiate and develop anti-feudal and  armed agrarian revolutionary struggle in 
Jehanabad, Aurangabad and Patna districts of his own Magadh region. In the state of Bihar which was 
known as a fortress of feudalism, the movement against cruel feudal lords and their private armies like 
Bhumi Sena erupted as a mighty tide through the mobilisation of lakhs of peasants. Mazdoor Kisan 
Sangharsh Samiti (MKSS) and Comrade Arvind as its leader played the main role in this. He was a 
great agitator. He had a feel for the pulse of the masses and could rouse them through his speeches. 
He inspired thousands of peasants to join militant struggles. He led them in chasing the landlords out 
of the villages and punishing their private armies by carrying out armed attacks on them. In this way, 
he earned the trust of the peasants as a capable peasant leader. His role was also significant in 
successfully carrying out resistance actions against the feudal private armies and seizing arms from 
them by mobilising the Dalits in retaliation against the massacre of Dalits by Upper Caste feudal 
armies in Magadh region. This movement expanded to the adjacent areas and 6-7 districts like Palamu 
of Koel-Kaimur area. The base of the feudal forces was shaken with the expansion and development 
of the revolutionary movement. The authority of the landlords started to crumble. Intolerant of these 
movements and in order to crush them, the state government conducted large-scale attacks by setting 
up police camps. Bihar Police fired upon the state conference of MKSS held in Arwal on 19 April 
1986 bringing back memories of the Jalianawalabagh massacre. 23 peasants were martyred and 70 
were injured in this massacre. Over 40,000 activists, leadership comrades and people were arrested 
across the state, tortured and incarcerated. Militant people’s resistance movement was conducted 
against this repression. 
 
From anti-feudal struggles to efforts towards establishing Guerrilla Zones with the aim of 
building Base Areas: The role of Comrade Arvind in developing the movement to the next higher 
level was very significant. The revolutionary forces which had emerged from the armed agrarian 
struggle were organised in Party Unity. Guerrilla Squads were formed out of MKSS and militia 
squads. He held discussions in the Party about developing the movement with the aim of establishing 
people’s democratic power through the united front of four classes under the leadership of the Party 
by crushing feudal political power. In this way, he played a very important role in developing the line 
of the erstwhile PU Party. 
 
Standing firm on the basic line of the Party in internal struggles: Comrade Arvind remained firm 
on the Party line during the internal struggles of the Party. Particularly in the first Conference of PU in 
1987, the Party Secretary Ashok brought forward a proposal of taking a rightist line. He presented a 
document in which it was claimed that our country was no longer semi-feudal, that it transformed into 
a capitalist society and therefore it was appropriate to abandon the path of protracted people’s war. 
The vast majority of the Party members under the leadership of Comrade Narayan Sanyal rejected this 
erroneous line and safeguarded the Party and its correct line. Comrade Arvind was one of those who 
stood in the forefront in this struggle under the leadership of Comrade Narayan Sanyal. 
 
Struggle against the opportunist politics of the revisionist parties: Vinod Mishra became the 
leader of CPI(M-L) after the martyrdom of Comrade Jowhar. He took a revisionist line. Comrade 
Arvind had a significant role in the struggles carried out by the erstwhile PU against this group which 
was strong in Bihar at that time and such other revisionist groups of the M-L camp. 
 
Preparing the basis for the unity of revolutionaries: It is not possible to achieve unity among 
revolutionaries without building strong movements in this way – by grasping this correct 
understanding, Comrade Arvind built strong movements in Magadh and consolidated the 
revolutionary line. In this way he brought valuable revolutionary experience to the Indian revolution 
in uniting revolutionaries. This brought a turning point in PU and formed the basis for the merger of 

 

2 

The armed clashes with MCC that continued for nearly three years after the merger of PW 

PW and PU. In this way he played a main role in the merger of PW and PU – the two main Parties of 
CPI(M-L) stream that were formed under the influence of Naxalbari.  
 
and PU in the unified PW have been identified as a black chapter in the history of the Indian 
revolution and it caused serious losses as well. Nevertheless, on the basis of correct ideology and 
practice, on the basis of deep self-criticism, without giving scope to any kind of opportunist 
compromises, by learning from one another alone can genuine revolutionaries achieve unity – 
Comrade Arvind was one of those who had conviction on this understanding and worked for unity 
untiringly. This paved the way for the merger of the two main streams of the Indian revolution – 
MCCI and PW – and the formation of CPI(Maoist). 
 
As one of the higher-level commanders of the Party: Comrade Arvind was one of the higher-level 
commanders given by the Indian revolution to the country’s oppressed masses. He played the main 
role in developing guerrilla war in Bihar led by erstwhile PU, erstwhile unified PW and unified 
CPI(Maoist). He made efforts by concentrating on developing guerrilla war as the main form of 
struggle and guerrilla Squads, Platoons and Companies as the main form of organisation of people’s 
guerrilla units. After the formation of CPI(Maoist), he performed his responsibilities as a member of 
the Central Military Commission (CMC) and Eastern Regional Command (ERC). His role in Bihar-
Jharkhand in defeating the enemy’s many aggressive attacks to wipe out the revolutionary movement, 
in intensifying the guerrilla war in the forested, hilly and plain areas and in adopting and 
implementing appropriate tactics to develop it to the level of mobile war was crucial. He directly led 
many valiant guerrilla actions including ambushes, raids and encounters and correctly guided many 
actions, contributing greatly to their success. No matter what hurdles came in the way of conducting 
guerrilla actions, he used to overcome them with great perseverance and made these actions 
successful with his boundless initiative, determination, patience, courage, understanding and sense of 
selfless sacrifice. He courageously led and coordinated the PLGA in many encounters between the 
enemy forces and the PLGA forces. He led from the front in directly commanding our forces to 
preserve our subjective strength and to destroy the enemy forces. He made serious efforts to develop 
the guerrilla war to a higher level with the aim of transforming it into mobile war. Jehanabad Jailbreak 
and guerrilla actions like Bhandaria, Dhardharia and Amvatikar will remain testimony to this. He 
gave direct leadership to the first Company under ERB in the Koel-Kaimur area of Bihar Region. He 
brought several new experiences of guerrilla war through continuous effort. He set examples before 
the Party and the PLGA by developing methods of active self-defence during the conduct of camps. 
He not only gave direct leadership in formulating military plans but also in implementing them 
concretely. He became one of the prime targets of the enemy as he directly gave leadership to the 
Party and the PLGA by always remaining with the Company in the field. Hundreds of enemy forces 
followed the Company with the aim of eliminating him.  In spite of this, he never worried about the 
enemy and never bowed to it. Under his leadership, the PLGA conducted many heroic counter-
offensive attacks against the enemy’s counter-guerrilla campaigns targeting him and wiped out a large 
number of enemy forces. Comrade Arvind in particular played a special role in developing guerrilla 
war before and after the formation of CPI(Maoist). 
 
Bringing new experience by developing as an expert in explosives and mine warfare: Comrade 
Arvind had a special role in preparing explosives, improvising various types of mines and developing 
mine warfare at a time when limitations in supply became a very acute hurdle in developing the 
guerrilla war. He not only acquired a grip on explosives through deep study, but he directly and 
successfully participated in many dangerous experiments in their preparation and use. He conducted 
many training camps for the PLGA related to this in ERB and one in CRB. He prepared notes on 
explosives and their use. Serious losses were caused to the enemy forces by successfully using the 
techniques of improvised explosives and science developed by Comrade Arvind.  
 
As an in-charge of supplies for the guerrilla forces: Comrade Arvind also performed the 
responsibility as one of the in-charges of supplies of the CMC, CPI(Maoist). After the enemy targeted 
and destroyed the supply mechanism of our Party, he made serious efforts to provide supplies to the 
guerrilla forces particularly of Magadh region. He utilised all kinds of contacts for this. He took the 

 

3 

help of even his friends and family members for this. He untiringly made efforts to rebuild the supply 
mechanism of our Party even after the enemy targeted and destroyed it repeatedly. He was a higher-
level revolutionary fighter and leader who incessantly made efforts for victory without getting 
dismayed by defeat and by believing that defeat is temporary while final victory belongs to the 
people. 
 
A determined fighter in enemy dungeons: Comrade Arvind twice went through incarceration by the 
enemy. He always stood up to enemy repression. He preserved Party secrets while in enemy custody 
even by bravely going through severe mental torture. After release, he immediately returned to the 
Party ranks under secrecy and resumed his responsibility of leading them.  
 
The life of Comrade Arvind is an ideal for the Party and India’s oppressed youth: In totality, the 
life history of Comrade Arvind is the history of a communist revolutionary who always continued 
struggle through relentless effort by keeping faith on the people, the Party and the world proletariat in 
spite of several ups and downs, tides and ebbs, twists and turns in the protracted people’s war and 
who never allowed despair to overcome him even when several comrades got martyred in front of his 
eyes. His service to the development of the people’s war in India and in concretely implementing the 
Party line in particular was immense. In spite of facing serious ailment, he remained in underground 
life in the strategic area, gave direct leadership to the Party ranks till his last breath and passed away 
amidst them. He was a selfless fighter, commander and leader of the proletariat dedicated to the 
revolution. He was a leader who won the confidence of the Party rank and file by closely integrating 
with them. The firmness with which he gave leadership to the Party was equalled by his lively 
personality with which he kept the cadres and the masses in high spirit. He inspired all by sharing his 
vast revolutionary experience. He was untiring in his study of specific subjects. He led a plain 
communist life. The ideals he has established are worthy of emulation by the cadres of the entire Party 
from top to bottom, by the commanders and fighters of the PLGA, by the new generation of cadres 
and the masses of the oppressed people. Indian revolution has lost a great leader with his demise. But 
he will always be alive in the annals of the revolutionary movement of the Indian and the world 
proletariat and live in the hearts of the oppressed masses. Comrade Arvind will always keep inspiring 
them. 
 
by upholding the ideals of Comrade Arvind who gave invaluable service to the revolutionary 
movement as one of the leaders of Indian revolution! Let us advance along the path shown by him! 
Let us take pledge to persist in struggle till the victory of the New Democratic Revolution and the 
establishment of socialism and communism.       
 
 
 

Let us develop the revolutionary movement in this difficult situation to the next higher level 

Spokesperson 

Central Committee 

(Abhay) 

CPI(Maoist) 

 

 

4 

