 

 

 

 

Make efforts till the last breath to realise the                                                 

aspirations of the Tadpal, Kassanur and Aipenta Martyrs! 

Defend, consolidate and advance the                                                      

revolutionary democratic movement of India! 

      COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

      CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

5-5-2018 

 

Condemn the massacres perpetrated by                                                                

the police, paramilitary and commando forces! 

Dear people, 
 
 
Between 10 March to 27 April 2018, 58 revolutionaries laid down their lives in three 
massacres carried out by the police, paramilitary and commando forces in Dandakaranya. Ten 
comrades (seven women and three men) were massacred in Tadpal forests near Pujarikanker 
of  Bijapur  district,  while  40  revolutionaries  and  villagers  (22  women  and  18  men)  were 
mowed down on the banks of Indravati River in  the Halbi Tumirigunda forest of the same 
district by C-60 commandos of Gadchiroli. Since this heinous crime was committed by the C-
60 commandos, the incident was known by the Kassanur village on the Maharashtra side of 
the river. Soon after this incident, eight revolutionaries (six women and two men) were shot 
dead  near  Ilimed  on  Aipenta  Hills  of  Bijapur  district.  A  total  of  35  female  and  23  male 
comrades were massacred in these three massacres. Of the eleven comrades who were injured 
in the firing of the C-60 commandos at Kassanur, six were taken away by C-60 officer ASP 
Maheswar Reddy to Khandla Rajaram forest and shot dead. 24 comrades lost their lives due 
to drowning in the river during the Kassanur incident. Our CC is pays its humble red homage 
with  bowed  heads  to  all  these  martyrs.  In  addition  to  them,  the  police  have  killed  tens  of 
revolutionaries,  revolutionary  masses  and  activists  of  revolutionary  organisations  in  other 
areas  of  revolutionary  struggle  in  the  country  (Bihar-Jharkhand,  Maharashtra,  Odisha  and 
Chhattisgarh) in encounters that took place in the last four months. CPI(Maoist) pays its red 
homage to each of the comrades who have given up their lives for advancing the revolution 
and reiterates its pledge to fight till the end to fulfil their aspirations. 
 
The NDA government is very aggressively carrying out brutal attacks in all the states 
where  the  Maoist  movement  is  active.  After  conducting  ‘Operation  Green  Hunt’  for  eight 
years,  it  is  now  implementing  the  ‘Samadhan’  strategy.  Hundreds  of  villagers  and  tens  of 
revolutionaries have been killed. In spite of this, the revolutionary  movement has  not only 
continued  but  is  in  fact  spreading  to  newer  areas.  Worried  by  this,  the  government  is 
preparing special  ‘Missions’ every  year and  intensifying  its armed offensive using  modern 
weapons.  Using  helicopters  extensively  in  various  roles,  it  is  introducing  aerial  attacks  as 
well. The attack carried out jointly by the Indian Air Force, central paramilitary forces and 
the  commando  forces  of  Telangana  and  Chhattisgarh  in  Pujarikanker  on  Chhattisgarh-
Telangana  border is  a proof of this. It  is stepping up attacks by  using UAVs widely. It is 
strengthening  mobile  network even  in the  forest regions. Moreover, it  is  making  informers 
out of some unemployed lumpen elements of the villages, family members of those who have 
been  punished  by  the  people  in  the  course  of  the  movement,  families  of  policemen  and 

 

1 

reactionary tribal  elders  by enticing  them with the promise of  money,  jobs and  protection. 
The government forces are carrying out attacks and massacres by mainly basing themselves 
on the intelligence provided by such informers. The central government held a meeting with 
the participation of the army and top police, civil and judicial officers of the Maoist struggle 
areas  in  May  2017  in  Delhi  and  chalked  out  the  strategy  of  ‘Samadhan’  with  the  aim  of 
wiping  out the revolutionary movement. It set the deadline of making India Maoist-free by 
2022.  But  the  state  governments,  particularly  the  BJP  government  of  Chhattisgarh  is  in  a 
hurry to uproot the Maoists by 2019 itself. Maharashtra’s BJP government too is participating 
in this race. The central government is not only giving the necessary funds to various states 
for  this  but  is  also  providing  additional  paramilitary  forces  demanded  by  them.  Unable  to 
provide  employment  opportunities  in  any  other  field,  the  state  governments  are  recruiting 
unemployed youths into government armed forces, giving them commando training and are 
increasing the size of these forces.  

As a result, the areas of the Maoist movement are being crushed under the iron heels 
of the police. People’s lives are in disarray and the oppression of the khaki goons is becoming 
more  and  more  intolerable.  Commando  attacks on  the  villages  are  taking  place  on  a  daily 
basis. Forests are reverberating with the sound of the guns of the special forces in the name 
combing  operations.  The  Adivasis  who  venture  into the  forests  in  search  of  the  means  of 
livelihood are being killed by them. Women are being subjected to atrocities. It has become a 
common thing to destroy even the meagre property of the villagers. On 5 February, an Oraon 
youth Ramkumar who went to play in the forest of Koyanvarse village of Gadchiroli that falls 
under  the  mining  area  was  brutally  killed  by  the  C-60  commands.  Adivasi  peasant  Sonsai 
(35) was burnt alive when he fell into the trap set up by the C-60 commandos as he went to 
hunt  in  the  forest  of  Chinavedampalli  village  of  the  same  district.  Such  incidents  have 
become common occurrence  in  the  lives of the Adivasis  in  the  last one decade.  Our Party 
appeals  to  the  people  to  condemn  and  resist  these  attacks  and  defend  the  revolutionary 
movement by standing firmly on its side. 
 
There  is  an  integral  link  between  the  growing  attacks,  massacres  and  severe 
punishment of comrades incarcerated in the jails in the movement areas on the one hand and 
the  economic  crisis  that  is  deepening  throughout  the  world  on  the  other.  The  exploitative 
ruling classes are in a hurry to loot the natural resources of the country on a large scale to 
come out of the economic crisis besetting the country and the world. Functionaries of central 
and all the state governments are competing with one another to frequent foreign countries 
within a short span of time to auction the country’s resources. They are concluding tens of 
agreements  with  various  capitalist,  imperialist  governments  and  multinational  companies. 
They are  busy  in providing  all the basic amenities to these  foreign and  domestic hawks  in 
order  to  reap  quick  results  as  per  the  promises  made  to  them.  They  are  intensifying  the 
attacks  on  the  masses  by  using  police  and  paramilitary  forces  to  complete  infrastructural 
projects. After Devendra Fadnavis became the Maharashtra Chief Minister, a security cordon 
has been laid around the forests and villages of Surjagarh Hills in Gadchiroli by deploying six 
camps  of  special  paramilitary  forces  for  the  only  purpose  of  facilitating  mining  activities. 
Iron-ore is being transported for the Lloyds Company in 400 vehicles once every week under 
heavy police protection. Almost all the mineral-rich areas of Bastar Range has been sold by 
the Raman Singh government in the last fifteen years to dozens of corporate houses including 
the Tatas, Jindal, Essar, etc. It has become a life-and-death problem for the people. They are 
putting  up  resistance  against  it  by  getting  ready  for  tremendous  sacrifice.  It  has  become 
unavoidable for them to stop the government policies and police guns.  

The  exploitative  ruling  classes  are  wiping  out  the  very  signs  of  PESA  and  Gram 
Sabhas  in  the  Adivasi  areas.  On  the  other  hand,  they  are  spreading  illusions  among  the 
masses  by  repeating  the  sugar-coated  mantra  of  “development”.  Modi,  Raman  Singh, 

 

2 

Devendra  Fadnavis, Raghubar Das, Chandrababu Naidu, Pinarayi Vijayan, Naveen Patnaik 
and Chandrashekhar Rao are in the forefront of this. The rulers are least concerned about the 
burning  problems  of  the  country  such  as  skyrocketing  prices  of  the  goods  of  daily  need, 
growing  unemployment,  farmer’s  suicide,  starvation  deaths,  atrocities  and  corruption 
scandals,  etc.  They  are  not  bothered  about  the  welfare  of  the  people  but  only  about  the 
development  of  the  ruling  classes  and  the  wealthy  families.  The  ruling  classes  are 
undermining all the laws that they themselves had promulgated and are violating the civil and 
democratic rights. They are harassing, arresting and putting behind bars for long periods the 
democrats,  intellectuals,  human  rights  activists  and  well-wishers  of  the  Adivasis  under 
fabricated charges who take the side of the struggling masses by branding them as ‘white-
collar’/‘urban’  Maoists.  The  sentencing  of  Comrades  G  N  Saibaba,  Prashant  Rahi,  Hem 
Mishra, Pandu Narote, Mahesh Tirkey and Vijay Tirkey are an example of this. Recently, a 
few  pro-establishment  intellectuals  of  Maharashtra  have  labelled  well-known  advocate  of 
Nagpur Surendra Gadling, a woman activist of Kabir Kala Manch Harshali and Dalit leader 
Sudhir  Dhawale  as  the  ‘conspirators’  behind  Bheema-Koregaon.  The  police  subsequently 
raided their residences and seized electronic devices from them. In this way, the police are 
gearing up to imprison them at any moment. Our Party strongly condemns these acts of state 
terror. 
 
While  the  people  are  fighting  these  life-and-death  problems  on  the  one  hand,  the 
attacks  of  the  Hindutva  forces  are  intensifying  in  the  country  on  the  other.  Hundreds  of 
attacks have been perpetrated by these forces in the last four years, in which several Muslims, 
Dalits and Adivasis have lost their lives and many more have lost their property. People of all 
sections  of  the  society  are  coming  under  Hindutva  attack.  In  spite  of  this,  the  rulers  have 
refused to resolve the problems of the people as they are only interested in the people’s votes. 
 
Dear people! 
 
 
The  spark  of  Naxalbari  has  become  a  prairie  fire  and  has  spread  throughout  the 
country. The exploitative ruling classes are unable to tolerate this. Particularly for the saffron 
terrorists  in  power,  the  country’s  Maoist  movement  has  become  unbearable.  It  is 
implementing  its  strategy  against  the  movement  in  a  very  aggressive  way  exceeding  the 
previous  governments.  In  spite  of  this,  the  growth  of  political  awareness,  people’s 
movements  and  democratic  movements  along  with  the  revolutionary  movement  in  the 
country have not allowed these oppressors to play their game of plunder as per their wishes. 
The people are fighting much more militantly than before. The People’s Liberation Guerrilla 
Army (PLGA)  is standing with the people and  is fighting  with  renewed determination and 
dedication. Our Party  is  mobilising  the  masses  and  carrying out struggles  by  exposing the 
anti-people policies of the exploitative ruling classes from time to time. The masses in the 
areas of the revolutionary movement in particular are fighting with the spirit of self-sacrifice 
and  courage  to  build  a  new  democratic  system  in  the  country  by  forming  people’s 
governments in place of the exploitative government. Salwa Judum and Harmad Bahini were 
defeated.  Thereafter  the  UPA  government  launched  the  war  on  people  in  2009  with  the 
strategy  of  Operation  Green  Hunt.  But  this  too  had  to  bite  the  dust  and  retreat  after  the 
Burkapal attack of 24 April 2017. The Union Home Minister had to acknowledge this defeat 
immediately  even  if  in  a  muffled  voice.  The  ruling  classes  have  brought  forward  the 
‘Samadhan’  strategy  by  talking  big  about  a  change  of  strategy.  The  people  are  acquiring 
many experiences in the course of defeating many enemy strategies through the people’s war 
in the last fifty years as a part of the Indian revolutionary movement. Our Party appeals to the 
people that they fight back the new ‘Samadhan’ strategy by using this experience. We will 
not be able to safeguard the achievements of the last five decades of people’s war if we fail to 

 

3 

defeat  the  higher-level  enemy  attacks  by  displaying  a  higher  level  of  consciousness. 
Therefore, it is time to take forward the active self-defensive war with courage, determination 
and  dexterity  through tactical  counter-offensive  attacks  by  deeply  studying  the  enemy  and 
without giving scope for mistakes. Let us take lessons from the experiences of the immortal 
martyrs and continue the struggle for realising their ideals and aspirations. 
 
Democrats, journalists, civil rights activists and students-youths, 
 

 
You all had got mobilised on a war-footing and brought the facts to light against the 
massacre  of  31  comrades  by  the  Greyhound  commandos  of  Andhra  Pradesh  Police  at 
Ramguda  of  Odisha  in  October  2016.  Massacres  on  an  even  bigger  scale  are  being 
perpetrated today. Our Party CPI(Maoist) calls upon you to come forward to investigate these 
massacres  immediately  and  to  participate  in  the  just  struggle  for  the  punishment  of  the 
perpetrators. You too are facing fascist attacks. You too are being arrested, denied bail and 
put  behind  bars  for  long  durations.  You too  are  being  attacked  and  a  few  among  you  are 
being killed. In spite of all this, our Party has full confidence on you and believes that you 
will  firmly  stand  by the people and  the people’s  movements with  conviction and  courage. 
Your  role  in  exposing  and  defeating  Salwa  Judum,  Sendra  and  Harmad  Bahini  that  were 
unleashed with the aim of spreading white terror among the masses is appreciable. You have 
valiantly  struggled  to  expose  Operation  Green  Hunt  that  was  launched  subsequently  and 
forced it to beat an ignominious retreat. Our Party congratulates you for your efforts in the 
wake of your growing responsibilities in the Indian revolutionary movement. Our Party hopes 
that  you  will  be  active  with  ever  more  determination  to  face  ‘Samadhan’  and  resist  the 
atrocities of the Hindutva forces in a conscious manner. 
 
 
Condemn  the  ongoing  state  repression  on  the  revolutionary,  national  liberation  and 

democratic movements! 

punishment for the guilty! 

Expose the pro-imperialist and anti-people policies of the central and state governments! 
Bring  to  light  the  facts  behind  Tadpal,  Kassanur  and  Aipenta  massacres  and  demand 

Organise memorial meetings and programmes in commemoration of Tadpal, Kassanur 
and  Aipenta  martyrs  and  hold  high  their  sacrifice!  Take  pledge  to  fulfil  their 
aspirations! 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

4 

With revolutionary greetings, 

 
 
 
 

(Abhay) 

Spokesperson 

Central Committe 

Communist Party of India (Maoist) 

