COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 
DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release 

June 10, 2011 

Raman Singh's Fascist Rule And Its Brutal Oppression Are Responsible 

For The Recent Counter-attacks Of PLGA! 
Stop Operation Green Hunt Immediately! 

Resist Deployment Of Army In Bastar! Oppose Proposed Huge Land Grab 

In The Name Of Army Training schools!! 

The exploitative ruling classes have been stung by the continued tactical counter-offensives carried out by 
PLGA especially from the month of May in Dandakaranya. The representatives of corporate media have joined in 
chorus  and  started  shouting  that  the  'Maoist  attacks  suddenly  picked  up'  expressing  'concern'!  Prakash  Singh, 
Arnab Goswami, Shekhar Gupta, Chandan Mitra, PV Ramana and all other bankrupt intellectuals are screaming in 
TV channels. Someone is saying that the government has no effective policy to deal with the Maoists and another 
says that the government has not willed to. But, naturally, none of these is ready to accept the fact that it was the 
logical outcome of the government's repressive policies. 

But  on  the  other  hand...  the  people  of  Dandakaranya  are  welcoming  the  PLGA's  counter-offensives. 
Especially those people, whose houses were burnt down, whose family members were killed, who were all looted, 
whose  mothers  and  sisters  were  insulted,  the  children  of  whom  became  the  victims  of  police  brutality,  whose 
nears and dears have been languishing in prisons particularly during these two years of Operation Green Hunt, 
have expressed their happiness over these counter-attacks. 

On 17th of last month in Dantewada district at night, one of our squads blew up CRPF's vehicle with a land 

mine near Borgudem. Seven mercenaries were killed and one wounded in that explosion. 

On  May  19,  our  PLGA  carried  out  a  heroic  ambush  near  Nargonda  village  in  Gadchiroli  (Maharashtra) 
district. Chinna Venta, a wild beast (C-60 commando squad commander) was killed and two others injured in that 
incident. Although in this ambush two of our brave comrades had to immolate their lives. On the same day 3 more 
mercenaries were annihilated by PLGA near Tadigaon village in the same district. Chinna Venta was synonymous 
with  terror  and  hardly  any  village  or  family  left  in  Gadchiroli  district  which  has  not  become  a  victim  of  his 
tyranny. From beatings to sexual assault on women, fake encounters, lootings and bribery all such heinous acts 
used to be a daily routine for him. After hearing the news of Chinna's killing, a festive atmosphere has created 
throughout the district. 

On  May  23  -  the  44th  anniversary  day  of  Great  Naxalbari  uprising  -  In  Raipur  district  (Gariaband  police 
district), our PLGA heroically ambushed a police party on the Odisha border killing 9 policemen including an 
ASP (Assistant Superintendent of Police) Rajesh Pawar. Slain ASP used to misguide and bribe the tribal youth to 
turn them into informants and he used to gather information from such people. His conspiracy was that on the 
basis of specific information attacks could be carried out to harm the revolutionary movement. People will never 
forgive such persons who attack and conspire against the just movement. 

Yesterday, on June 9, at seven in the morning the red fighters of PLGA ambushed a police party near the 
CAF  (Chhattisgarh  Armed  Force)  camp  of  Jharaghati  village  in  Narayanpur  district  in  which  five  mercenaries 
died. Two sofisticated weapons were taken away from them. It's noteworthy that this camp was very recently set 
up under the second phase of Operation Green Hunt. And last night in Katekalyan area of Dantewada district, our 
red  warriors  of  PLGA  blew  up  an  MPV  (mine  proof  vehicle)  of  police  in  which  total  10  police  personnel, 
including 7 SPOs (Special Police Officers) were killed and 3 others injured. Some weapons were also taken away. 
Also in recent days, in Chhindgarh, Tongpal, Bande, Gudse and in some other places PLGA carried out some 

small and medium type of actions by annihilating some notorious SPOs and policemen. 
Why are these counter-offensives taking place? 

 In fact, Sonia-Manmohan Singh-Chidambaram gang and exploitative rulers like Raman Singh, Shekhar Dutt 
are responsible for these attacks, who are waging an unjust war - Operation Green Hunt -  against the people of 
the country of which now the second phase being told. As part of this in undivided Bastar region, atrocities and 
brutal oppression by police, paramilitary, STF, CoBRA, Koya commando and SPOs have increased immensely. 
The  terror  campaign  unleashed  in  four  villages  of  Chintalnar  area  -  Morpalli,  Timmapuram,  Pulanpad  and 
Tadimetla by government armed forces is a recent example. In this barbaric act carried out from March 11 to 16, 
nearly 300 houses were burnt down; three villagers were killed; six women were raped; two people have been 

missing; thousands of quintals of food grains were burnt by the so-called security forces. The true measure of this 
destruction is just impossible. 

In Narayanpur district, on April 19, in village Chinari, a fourteen-year old boy named by Rajnu Salam was 
picked up and shot dead by the police and paramilitary forces and announced as an encounter. Before this, on 
March 23, in the same district, after an encounter took place in Kullenar village, two PLGA comrades Ramesh 
and  Prabhakar  were  caught  alive  and  were  killed  after  being  subjected  to  brutal  torture.  In  Bellamnendra  and 
Vimlaguda villages of South Bastar, the government forces created havoc. In this vast region of Dandakaranya, 
stretching from Rajnandgaon and Kanker districts in the north to Dantewada district in the far south, hundreds of 
adivasis have been arrested and tortured. They have been languishing in jails with false cases implicated. To put in 
a  nutshell,  in  throughout  Dandakaranya,  government  armed  forces  have  been  continuing  their  oppression  and 
terror campaign incessantly. Recent counter-attacks should be seen in this background. 

In fact, the only goal of Operation Green Hunt being carried out in many parts of the country, especially in 
the tribal areas, is to wipe out the Maoist movement and to convert these areas into grazing land for the plunderers 
-  the  comprador  capitalists  and  the  MNCs.  Especially  in  the  forest  areas  of  Jharkhand,  Bihar,  Chhattisgarh, 
Odisha,  Andhra  Pradesh  and  West  Bengal  the  governments  have  signed  hundreds  of  MoUs  with  corporate 
companies. Of late, government has announced the privatization of Raoghat mines and invited foreign companies 
to loot precious iron ore reserves. Since the Maoist movement stands as the biggest obstacle in their way, they are 
waging this war to wipe this out. Now the process of Army deployment has also been started. Although the army 
is being brought in the name of 'training', but even school going children can also understand this as part of a 
conspiracy to crush the just mass movements. 

On the one hand, the Raman Singh's BJP government in Chhattisgarh is hell-bent on large scale suppression 
of  the  struggling  people  and  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  suppressing  every  voice  raised  against  it.  Human  rights 
activist Dr. Binayak Sen was arrested in treason case and sentenced to life imprisonment only for speaking out 
against the atrocities of government forces and the Salwa Judum's terror. Himanshu Kumar's 'Vanavasi Chetana 
Ashram'  was  demolished  with  the  same  reason  and  Raman's  government  has  driven  him  away  not  only  from 
Bastar, but also from Chhattisgarh. Every team that had come for fact-finding of massacres of adivasis carried out 
as part of Operation Green Hunt was blocked from entering into Bastar. Even a woman team was badly harassed 
and forced to get out of Bastar region. Recently, Swami Agnivesh was also beaten and forced to leave Bastar 
while  he  was  trying  to  reach  Chintalnar  area  to  meet  the  victims  of  state  terror.  Chhattisgarh  home  minister 
Nankiram shamelessly announced that his government is just going to impose ban on PUCL and that even Swami 
Agnivesh  would  be  barred  from  entering  Bastar  region.  To  understand  the  nature  of  fascistic  'police  raj'  in 
Chhattisgarh one example of Kalluri, the notorious ex-SSP of Dantewada would be quite sufficient. In a press 
conference Kalluri openly declared the cash reward of Rs one lakh to a Koya commando commander who had 
killed a villager by the name of Maoist. And he surprised everyone by saying that he would continue to give cash 
rewards in the same way for each Maoist's death. He also vowed that he would not take salt in his food until at 
least 12 Maoists killed! 

What  the  police  tell  is  the  law  here!  What  Home  Minister  or  Chief  Minister  says  is  the  Constitution  in 
Chhattisgarh! "Democracy" has been reduced to a lewd joke here. PESA Act, 5th schedule etc. have become a 
mockery. In these circumstances the people have no option but to resist in their self-defense. 

We appeal to police,  paramilitary forces and SPOs that  you are  not our enemies. This battle is not aimed 
against you. The exploiting ruling classes have pushed you into this unjust war against people. So, you do not take 
part in operations carried out against people and do not perpetrate acts of terror against the people. Identify the 
real enemies of the country - the corrupt, scamsters, gangsters and compradors who are ruling our country in the 
name of democracy. 

Communist Party of India (Maoist) Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee calls upon the country's entire 

toiling people and democrats to demand for -- 
  Stop Operation Green Hunt immediately! 
  Oppose the deployment of Army in Bastar region and resist the proposed acquisition of 750 sq km land 

in the name of Army training! 

  Demand  for  stringent  punishments  to  all  police  officers  including  SSP  Kalluri,  IG  Langkumer  and 
DGP Viswaranjan and all other CoBRA and Koya commandos involved in the atrocities and acts of 
terror committed against the people of Chintalnar area! 

  Demand for unconditional release of all imprisoned adivasis! 

 
(Gudsa Usendi) 
Spokesperson 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee 
CPI (Maoist) 

