COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

July 2, 2011 

Immediately withdraw the death sentences on Adivasi and dalit 

cultural artistes and leaders Comrades Jeeten Marandi, Anil Ram, 

Manoj Rajwar and Chhatrapati Mandal ! 

 

 

On June 23, the Giridih district (Jharkhand) sessions court judge Indradeo Mishra pronounced 
death  sentences  to  Jeeten  Marandi,  Anil  Ram,  Manoj  Rajwar  and  Chhatrapati  Mandal  in  the 
Chilkari case where 19 people were killed in 2007 and thus the state bared its fascist fangs one more 
time. Jeeten Marandi and others have always worked openly and the organizations they are working 
for are not banned organizations. Pronouncing death sentences in a case with which they had no 
connection  whatsoever  is  a  clear  is  nothing  but  an  act  of  revenge  on  them  as  they  are  standing 
firmly with the people using song and dance in all their anti-imperialist and anti-feudal struggles, 
particularly against displacement. As part of Operation Green Hunt launched to suppress the Maoist 
movement  in  the  country,  particularly  in  Central  and  Eastern  India,  the  central  and  state 
governments have been resorting to the most brutal and heinous atrocities one could imagine on the 
poorest  of the poor –  the  Adivasis of  this country and  these latest  death sentences  are  one  more 
proof of this. The cruelest face of OGH could be seen in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Odisha and 
that too in the Adivasi areas of these states where the Maoist movement is stronger.  

Jeeten  Marandi  is  a  well-known  Adivasi  cultural  artiste  and  leader  of  Jharkhand  Abhen,  a 
cultural organization of Jharkhand. He is a leader of the All India League for revolutionary Culture 
and has toured the length and breadth of India propagating revolutionary songs and culture. Anil 
Ram,  Manoj  Rajwar  and  Chhatrapati  Mandal  are  also  Adivasi  and  Dalit  cultural  artistes.  Jeeten 
displayed his cultural talents since he was a child and gradually developed himself into one of the 
finest artistes this country has ever produced. It was only natural that as a conscious child he could 
not ignore the plight of the Adivasi society of which he himself was a part. His social investigation 
of  the  root  causes  for  the  poverty,  exploitation  and  oppression  of  Adivasis  naturally  led  him  to 
revolutionary  politics  and  he  and  his  cultural  organization  propagated  revolutionary  politics  to 
awaken political consciousness among the people.  

Propagating one’s ideas openly is not a crime and nobody can be punished for that. The ruling 
classes of India are not ready to tolerate any kind of dissent and have been resorting to all kinds of 
ploys to stifle the voices of dissent to its pro-imperialist and anti-people policies aiming to loot the 
natural resources and rich mineral wealth of the people. As true people’s artistes they have been in 
the forefront in the anti-displacement movement in Jharkhand which is giving one of the toughest 
resistances in this matter. It is very clear that the state is punishing them for these political activities 
and  not  for  some  Chilkari  case  which  everybody  knows  is  just  one  of  the  dozens  of  false  cases 
foisted  on  them.  In  the  bitter  class  struggle  fought  against  feudalism  in  Bihar  and  Jharkhand 
massacres  were  perpetrated  by  the  land  lords  through  their  private  armies  on  the  peasantry, 
particularly  on  the  dalits.  The  peasantry  had  to  resort  to  counter-violence  in  self-defence  and 
incidents  like  Chilkari are  a  part  of  it.  The  state  instead  of looking  into  the  root causes  for  such 
incidents  and  addressing  them,  is  trying  to  use  them  to  foist  false  cases  on  mass  organization 
activists to stifle their voices of dissent.  Firstly they slapped a case of sedition on Jeeten Marandi in 
2007 with the allegation that he made inflammatory speeches in front of Raj Bhavan in Ranchi on 

the issue of release of political prisoners and have been harassing him ever since with incarceration 
and false cases. Even before that he has been arrested many times and sometimes beaten brutally. 
This death sentence comes as a culmination of all these conspiracies to stifle his voice forever. The 
state  is  so  shameless  in  its  callousness  that  it  has  foisted  some  cases  of  Pirtand  and  Teesri  P.S. 
which happened when Jeeten was in jail! 

This  country  has  a  200  year  long  history  of  colonial  rule  under  the  British  which  was 
consequently witness to countless Adivasi rebellions. British imperialism sought to suppress these 
rebellions by using brute force with the advantage of modern weapons they had and hanging of the 
rebel  leaders  was  one  consistent  tactic  it  had  used.  The  comprador  Indian  ruling  classes  which 
inherited  this  mantle  of  brute  suppression  from  them  are  following  in  their  footsteps.  Comrades 
Bhumaih and Kista Goud were the first revolutionary peasant activists to be hanged in ‘independent 
India’ and later death sentences were pronounced on many revolutionary activists, particularly on 
the  revolutionary  peasant  activists  in  Bihar  (which  included  the  present  Jharkhand)  implicating 
them  in  false  cases.  People’s  lawyers  and  civil  rights  leaders  like  comrades  KG  Kannabiran  and 
Pattipati Venkateswarlu as part of their civil rights organizations have vehemently fought against 
the death sentences pronounced on the revolutionaries both in the courts and outside and built broad 
movements  not  only  with  the  immediate  demands  of  annulling  the  death  sentences  in  particular 
cases but also for ending capital punishment. It is the necessary to continue this fight on a broader 
scale as it is obvious that the state would resort to more such fascist acts apart from the massacres, 
false  encounters  and  atrocities  perpetrated  on  the  Adivasi  hamlets  on  a  daily  basis.  Singanna  of 
Narayanapatna was killed point blank in police firings, Lalmohan Tudu of Lalgarh was killed in a 
‘fake encounter’ and now comes this death sentence on Jeeten Marandi of Jharkhand. This is all 
part  of  the  conspiracy  to  kill  the  people’s  leaders  who  emerged  from  the  people’s  movements 
waged  against  feudalism,  comprador  bureaucratic  bourgeoisie  and  imperialism.  By  rendering  the 
movements  leaderless  they  want  to  remove  all  hurdles  to  their  loot  of  natural  resources  in  the 
Adivasi areas. 

As Jeeten and other people present in the court sang in the court immediately after the death 
sentences were pronounced – ‘that day would definitely come’ when people would put an end to all 
these  fascist  acts  of  the  state  with  powerful  mass  upsurges.  Neither  death  sentences  nor  false 
encounters can kill the spirit of true leaders of the people and they would fight to the end. 

CPI (Maoist) demands that  the death sentences of Jeeten Marandi, Anil Ram, Manoj Rajwar 
and Chhatrapati Mandal be annulled immediately. It appeals to all democratic organizations, civil 
rights organizations, organizations for the rights of political prisoners and particularly to all cultural 
and literary organizations and Adivasi cultural associations to build a vast  movement demanding 
the annulment of these death sentences and the unconditional release of these people’s artistes. Let 
us broaden this movement for ending capital punishment altogether. 
 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

