COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

June 23, 2011 

Red Homage To Renowned Marxist Economist And 

Great Friend Of Indian Revolution Comrade Prof. R.S. Rao! 

 
On  June  17,  2011  Prof  RS  Rao  (74),  the  renowned  Marxist  Economist  and  great  friend  of 
Indian Revolution breathed his last in a hospital in New Delhi. With his demise, the Indian people 
have lost one of their greatest well-wishers and the Indian revolution has lost one of its greatest 
friends.  His  death  spread  a  wave  of  grief  throughout  the  revolutionary  camp  and  the  CC,  CPI 
(Maoist) humbly pays red homage to this staunch Marxist who has stood firmly with the oppressed 
people  and  the  Maoist  revolutionary  movement  raging  in  this  country  ever  since  the  Naxalbari 
days.  

RS Rao, was born in Srikakulam of Andhra Pradesh but major part of his life and work were 
spent in Sambalpur of Odisha. The fact that he has chosen to work here as this area witnessed 
displacement  due  to  big  dams  and  was  an  Adivasi  area  shows  his  deep  concern  for  the  most 
deprived people of this country. This deep concern and sense of commitment for the oppressed 
masses, particularly for the Adivasis continued till the end. Naxalbari proved to be a turning point in 
his life and he deeply and firmly believed that only a movement which can fight back the feudal 
exploitation  and  oppression  can  liberate  this  country.  In  all  his  writings  and  speeches  he  kept 
pointing towards the semi-feudal relations and the need to liberate our country from them. Even as 
debates  raged  in  the  Marxist  circles  if  capitalist  relations  have  entered  India  he  analyzed  the 
production relations in India with a Marxist viewpoint and reiterated the semi-feudal nature of those 
relations.  That  is  why  he  consistently  believed  and  wrote  about  the  need  for  new  democratic 
revolution for this country as it would overthrow these exploitative production relations. His book 
Towards Understanding Semi Feudal Semi Colonial Society: Studies in Political Economy, and his 
other works are a must read for all serious political activists working for new democratic revolution. 
His lucid style of writing and usage of simple words for explaining complex economic terms have 
been appreciated very much by ordinary activists and public. 

RS  Rao  was  one  of  the  first  persons  who  questioned  the  imperialist-dictated  development 
model implemented by the Indian ruling classes and brought forth the concept that dark shadows 
lie  below  the  lamp  of  development  even  from  the  days  when  big  dams  like  Bhakra  Nangal  and 
Hirakud  displaced  people.  When  Nehru  described  big  dams  as  ‘Modern  Temples’,  he  said  that 
indeed they were modern temples which did not allow entry to the ones who constructed them. His 
seminal  work  on  this  concept  ‘Abhivrudhi  Velugu  Needalu’  (The  bright  and  dark  sides  of 
development) in Telugu continues to influence any serious debate about the development model 
this country should follow. He had guided many young researchers and encouraged them to take 
up study of the social and economic changes occurring in the rural areas, particularly the changes 
in the  old  Maoist  movement areas.  As  a  veteran Marxist  he  tried to  study things  in  their motion 
using dialectical method and tried to grasp their essence.   

Recently,  he  played  a  crucial  role  of  as  one  of  the  three  mediators  between  the  Odisha 
government  and  the  CPI  (Maoist)  when  Malkangiri  Collector  Vineel  Krishna  and  junior  engineer 
Pabitra Majhi were abducted. He was painfully aware of the fact that they could secure the release 
of  these  two  government  servants  but  could  not  even  extract  information  from  the  government 
about the whereabouts of Comrade Seethanna leave alone the fulfillment of the promises made by 
the government in the wake of this abduction.  

Since Naxalbari RS Rao has been a great friend and well-wisher of the people and the Maoist 
movement in the country and stood unwaveringly with the movement and Marxism in the face of all 
kinds  of  ideological  debates,  particularly  during  the  world  wide  reactionary  and  post-modernist 

attacks on Marxism after the collapse of Soviet super power. The Maoist movement feels honored 
by the fact that a sound Marxist like RS Rao has always looked to the official political organs of CPI 
(Maoist) for his reference. The CPI (Maoist) hails RS Rao as a model pro-people intellectual who 
should be emulated by any intellectual of this country who has people’s interests at heart. They 
must  use  their  intellect  and  writings  to  preserve  the  interests  of  the  oppressed  people  of  our 
country and stand by them in  spite of all  kinds  of odds. This need is felt more than ever at this 
juncture when the Indian state has launched a multi-pronged country-wide war on the people to 
facilitate the indiscriminate loot of the natural resources of our country. The oppressed people of 
India, particularly the Adivasis would never forget the services rendered by Prof RS Rao and would 
always  fondly  remember  this  gentle,  soft-spoken  intellectual  who  was  always  scathing  in  his 
critique of the ruling class policies. 

CC, CPI (Maoist) on behalf of the whole revolutionary camp sends its deepest condolences to 
Bharatigaaru, family, friends, colleagues in the various revolutionary and other mass organizations 
and appeals to them to propagate his writings and the values he upheld in his life so that they can 
be emulated by the younger generations who seek to liberate our country. The support extended 
by intellectuals like RS Rao for the revolutionary movement plays a crucial role in its survival and 
development and our party warmly remembers all support and solidarity extended by such writers 
and  intellectuals.  The  real  homage  one  could  pay  to  RS  Rao  would  be  to  follow  the  ideals  and 
values he had propagated and followed in his life, to continue the study of the production relations 
of our country with a sound Marxist viewpoint in order to change them and to stand firmly with the 
movements  which  aim  to  liberate  our  country  from  the  shackles  of  feudalism,  comprador 
bureaucratic bourgeoisie and imperialism. Our party sees the efforts of all such intellectuals as part 
of the whole effort for a new democratic India. We appeal to all the friends and colleagues of RS 
Rao to continue his efforts and ideals to fulfill his dream of genuine democracy and development 
for the people. 
 

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

