 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

UPress Release

 

August 28, 2014 

 

Immediately Stop Harassment of Veteran Maoist Leader  

Comrade Kobad Ghandy! 

Unconditionally Release All Senior Citizen 

Maoist Political Prisoners! 

 
Veteran comrade Kobad Ghandy was abducted from a public place in Delhi by the Andhra 
Pradesh, Delhi Intelligence and Delhi police on September 17, 2009, kept under illegal detention for 
three  days  and  subjected  to  severe  mental  torture  in  the  name  of  interrogation.  It  was  only  after 
vehement protests and agitations from various civil rights and democratic organisations that he was 
produced in the court on September 21. The then Home Minister, Chidambaram lied shamelessly that 
he was arrested on September 20th night and was produced ‘within 24 hours’. After the arrest, he was 
treated  inhumanely  by  depriving  medicine  and  medical  treatment  for  his  life-threatening  health 
problems for several days. 

It has been five years since this illegal arrest and detention but the State is stopping his release 
by  denying  bails  and  is  keeping  him  in  prison  under  flimsy  and  foisted  charges.  Comrade  Kobad 
Ghandy (69) is a heart patient, with acute Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS), cervical and lower lumbar 
spondylitis, blood pressure and a protracted case of prostrate problem. In spite of his age and serious 
ailments  the  central,  state  intelligence  officials,  prison  authorities  and  the  judiciary  are  acting 
completely deaf and blind to his plight, ignoring his pleas for minimum facilities which he is entitled 
to even according to law. All this is being done with a conspiracy to deteriorate his health. He had to 
fight even to get the health supplements provided by his sister, a chair and a table to sit and write, a 
bed  block  and  also  access  to  books  and  writing  pad  but  only  after  careful  scrutiny  by  the  jail 
authorities. 

After the secret execution of Afzal Guru in February 2013, which in itself is a blot on Indian 
judicial  system,  all  the  prisoners  were  shifted  from  the  High  Risk  Ward  of  Jail  No  3  of  Tihar  Jail 
(Delhi). Despite severe protests from comrade Kobad, he was also shifted forcefully to Jail No.1. On 
top  of  it,  the  jail  authorities  callously  made  the  ailing  old  man  carry  all  his  belongings  without 
extending any help. Due to this he became bed-ridden for several weeks. Though he is not able to go 
through his daily chores and finds it extremely difficult to carry water in buckets and wash clothes by 
bending, he was not given any assistance.  

Every  time  he  is  shifted  from  one  jail  to  another,  the  whole  process  of  requesting  for 
minimum  facilities  starts  and  sometimes  he  gets  some  of  these  and  sometimes  he  is  not  being 
provided any. They had rejected his request to be shifted to the senior citizen ward in Tihar Jail and 
instead started shifting him again to Jail No.2 in 2014 July. This they did in spite of his clearly stating 

that the shifting would take its toll on him. Left with no choice he started a hunger strike. But he was 
forcefully shifted to Jail No.2 on a stretcher on July 16. 

In  view  of  the  way  on  CPI  (Maoist)  Politburo  member  comrade  Sushil  Roy  (Barunda), 
arrested in May 2005, was driven to death on June 18, 2014 due to the callous way the State handled 
his health problems there is every reason to be alarmed about comrade Kobad's situation. The State is 
behaving in the most inhuman, cruel manner with senior Maoist party leaders (in their 50s, 60 and 
70s) and is conspiring to make them quickly breathe their last in the dungeons. Bails are denied and 
even  when  are  granted,  they  are  foisting  new  cases,  arresting  them  in  front  of  the  jail  gates  and 
pushing  them  into  the  dungeons  again.  Comrades  Narayan  Sanyal,  Bhupeshda,  Pareshda,  Sahebda, 
Chintanda, Sheela didi, Amit Bagchi, Pramod Mishra, Bachha Prasad Singh, Chandra Sekhar Reddy, 
LSN Murthy, Patit Pavan Haldar, Varanasi Subrahmanyam and several other senior party leaders are 
being harassed without an iota of empathy for their old age or ailments. Trampling every law under 
their iron heels, an intellectual like G N Saibaba with 90 percent disability is also being harassed by 
denying  him  any  kind  of  facility.  When  this  is  the  case,  the  plight  of  common  adivasis,  dalits  and 
women who are incarcerated in the dozens of prisons all over the country can only be imagined. They 
are spending endless years in jails without any facilities and help, being subjected to the atrocities of 
the  police-jail  officials  and  becoming  victims  of  the  unjust  judiciary.  Some  are  dying  in  captivity 
unable to bear those harsh conditions.  

Modi led NDA government is now directing the judiciary to give clean chits to blood-thirsty 
murderers like Amit Shah and providing them with Z plus security. Thus it is trying to legitimise all 
their gory deeds. On the other hand, even small cases of political prisoners and common prisoners are 
extended for eternity on flimsy excuses such as not having enough escort police. The prisoners are 
being denied any facilities they are legally entitled to and the State is acting with vengeance towards 
them.  

The  CC,  CPI  (Maoist)  is  appealing  to  all  the  revolutionary,  democratic,  civil  rights 
organisations  and  forces  and  the  lawyer  community  to  put  up  a  united  and  determined  fight 
demanding a stop to all kinds of harassments by jail officials heaped on comrade Kobad Ghandy by 
specially targeting him and his immediate and unconditional release. It is appealing to all the people 
to carry on mass agitations and build up immense pressure on the governments and the judiciary to get 
all  the  senior  party  leaders  mentioned  above,  incarcerated  for  years  together,  released  and  also  for 
their right to be recognised as political prisoners.  

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, CPI (Maoist) 

 

