COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

 

 

 

Press Release:                                                                                                    5 December 2009 
Separate state of Telangana is an inalienable right of the four crore people of 
Telangana! No force on earth can suppress the people's democratic aspiration 

for separate Telangana! Let us wage a united militant mass struggle against 

the Congress fascist regime and the betrayers in various political garbs! 

 

The 40 million people of Telangana region who comprise over 40 % of the population of 
the  state  of  Andhra  Pradesh  have  stood  up  boldly  and  unequivocally  for  their  long-cherished 
democratic  demand  for  a  separate  state.  The  people  of  Telangana  region  not  only  suffer  from 
discrimination  and  neglect  by  the  state  and  central  governments  that  serve  the  imperialists, 
comprador big business houses, and big landlords, but also from the oppression, exploitation and 
discrimination  by  the  landlords,  bourgeoisie  and  the  neo-rich  class  hailing  from  the  relatively 
developed Andhra region. Hence the democratic aspiration for a separate state has taken firm root 
in the minds of the neglected people of Telangana region.  

 The demand for separate Telangana was raised several  times over the past few decades 
and had even assumed the form of a violent year-long agitation in the year 1969. But it was then 
brutally  suppressed  by  the  Congress  government  led  by  Indira  Gandhi  and  betrayed  by  the 
Telanagana Praja Samiti led by Chenna Reddy. 400 people, most of them students, were killed by 
the fascist Congress regime in 1969 but it could not kill the democratic aspiration of the people of 
Telangana. Successive regimes of the Congress and TDP, which were captive to the pressures of 
the  Andhra lobby, had opposed the demand tooth and nail. However, during the elections to the 
state Assembly in 2004 and again in 2009, the Congress, with an eye on the votes, promised that 
it would fulfill the demand for a separate state if it came to power.  

But this comprador Party, known for its long history of betrayals of promises, went back 
on  its  promise  of  Telangana  state  and  began  to  dilly-dally  on  the  issue  for  over  five  years.  The 
other major party of the big landlord big bourgeoisie classes of India, the BJP too, had promised 
Telangana state with the  catchy slogan of 'one vote—two states'  way back in the 1999 elections 
but betrayed the people after it came to power in the Centre. Today the opportunist parties such as 
the  BJP  and  TDP,  CPI  and  CPI(M),  are  claiming  that  they  support  Telangana  only  with  the 
ulterior  motive  of  gaining  some  mass  base  and  convert  it  to  their  vote  banks.  TRS,  which 
contested  elections  on  the  sole  slogan  of  separate  Telangana  in  2004  in  alliance  with  the 
Congress, and again in 2009 in alliance with the TDP, had wasted more than five years begging 
Sonia and lobbying in the corridors of the Parliament for a separate state. The TRS and its leader 
KCR  are  opposed  from  the  very  beginning  to  people’s  agitation  for  achieving  Telangana  state. 
Their  sole  fear  was  that  any  mass  agitation  would  become  militant  and  slip  out  of  their  hands. 
Hence  the  TRS  had  been  trying  by  all  means  to  dilute  the  real  struggle  and  confine  it  to  the 
corridors of the Parliament  and  Assembly  with  an occasional demonstration to pretend  that it is 
also  for  struggle.  KCR,  who  claimed  all  along  that  his  Party  would  achieve  statehood  for 

Telangana  through  lobbying  among  the  Congress  high  command,  has  gone  on  an  indefinite 
hunger-strike thinking this step would keep the movement under his control. 

But  the  present  mass  upsurge  in  Telangana  has  gone  beyond  the  control  of  any  single 
party.  It  is  gradually  freeing  itself  from  the  manipulations  and  narrow  selfish  interests  of  the 
parliamentary parties and a new leadership is emerging out of the struggle. That is why the rulers 
are  scared to the hilt by the  unfolding events and  by the prospects of formation of a democratic 
Telangana. The Congress-led UPA regime in the Centre and the Congress government in Andhra 
Pradesh  are  trying  to  suppress  this  spontaneous  mass  upsurge  and  the  emerging  young  militant 
leadership by any means. It has closed down the universities and colleges for 15 days imagining 
that through this step it can douse the agitation. The government is also trying to divert the issue 
and  legitimize  its  use  of  brute  force  in  the  name  of  anti-social  elements  entering  the  movement 
and also saying that Maoists  will  take  advantage of the situation.  It  is  trying  in  vain to separate 
the  Maoists  from  the  people.  Maoists  have  always  supported  and  will  continue  to  support  and 
participate  in  all  people's  movements  including  separate  Telangana  movement.  The  reactionary 
rulers cannot isolate the Maoists from the people.  

The  Central  Committee,  CPI(Maoist),  which  has  consistently  placed  the  demand  for  a 
separate  democratic  Telangana  hails  the  students,  workers,  peasantry,  middle-class  employees, 
and the intelligentsia of Telangana for  their resolute struggle in face of the fascist suppression by 
the reactionary ruling classes. It pledges its total support to the fighting masses of Telangana for 
whose liberation thousands of our comrades had sacrificed their lives in the past three decades. It 
calls  upon  the  people  of  Telangana  to  beware  of  the  conspiracies  of  the  various  parliamentary 
parties to hijack this movement for their electoral ends and their attempts to take it along the path 
of  compromise.  While  uniting  all  forces,  including  the  parliamentary  parties  that  are  willing  to 
join the struggle we should formulate appropriate plans to defeat the enemy's brutal onslaught and 
to  sustain  the  agitation  with  a  clear  long-term  plan.  We  should  force  the  so-called  people's 
representatives  belonging  to  various  parliamentary  parties  in  Telangana  to  resign  and  to 
particularly concentrate on wiping out the Congress party from the Telangana region. We appeal 
to the people of Telangana, particularly the students, not to indulge in suicides but to step up their 
mass movement until victory. 

People  and  people  alone  are  the  real  heroes.  They  are  invincible.  However  much  the 
fascist  rulers  try  to  suppress  the  people's  struggle  in  rivers  of  blood  through  their  uniformed 
mercenaries  they  will  certainly  be  washed  away  by  the  tsunami  of  people's  struggles.  Let  us 
intensify  the  mass  movement  by  adopting  all  forms  of  struggle  to  defeat  the  offensive  by  the 
Manmohan-Chidambaram government at the  Centre and Roshaiah's  government in the  state and 
continue the struggle resolutely until we achieve separate Telangana.   
 
 
Azad, 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee (provisional) 
CPI(Maoist) 

