COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

 
June 24, 2011 

The offer for peace talks by the President of India is nothing but a 

ploy to divert the people from the reality of OGH Phase -2! 

 

 

On June 24, the President Pratibha Patil who came on a visit to Chhattisgarh capital Raipur proposed 
that Maoists should shun violence and come forward for talks and that they should join the mainstream and 
work for the development of Adivasis. This proposal came exactly at a time when thousand Indian Army 
soldiers had entered Bastar to participate in the Operation Green Hunt (OGH) against the poorest people of 
India. In the backdrop of the signing of MoUs worth billions of rupees worth to loot the natural resources of 
our  mineral-rich  country  after  many  rounds  of  talks,  the  President  is  talking  about  ‘peace  talks’.  She  is 
proposing these ‘talks’ when already 750 sq kms of forest land where dozens of villages and thousands of 
Mariya Adivasi community reside have been handed over to the Army without any ‘talks’ whatsoever. 

Pratibha  Patil,  incidentally  the  first  woman  President  of  India,  is  advising  us  to  shun  violence  even 
before the wounds of women of Tadimetla, Morpalli, Pulanpadu and Timmapur villages at the southern tip 
of Chhattisgarh have healed after the brutal atrocities and violence of the government forces perpetrated on 
them.  She  is  advising  us  to  abjure  violence  when  state  violence  is  a  daily  occurrence  in  Dandakaranya, 
Bihar-Jharkhand,  Odisha,  Maharashtra  and  many  other  areas,  particularly  the  Maoist  movement  areas  or 
Adivasi areas. In fact, state violence expresses itself in many forms. It is carried on in various methods at 
various times. For example, today it hiked the price of kerosene by two rupees, diesel by three rupees and 
cooking  gas  by  50  rupees.  This  is  one  form  of  violence  which  makes  the  lives  of  people  even  more 
unbearable. But the President doesn’t have any issue with such kinds of ‘violence’. 

The first citizen of India is even asking us to ‘join the mainstream’. The ‘heroes’ of the ‘mainstream’ 
which she is referring to, i.e., the scamster and gangster corrupt ministers, political leaders, corporate sharks, 
and their comprador lackeys are facing the hatred of the people from Dilli to gully. The workers, peasants, 
Adivasis,  Dalits,  minorities  and  women  face  nothing  but  injustice,  atrocities  and  insults  in  this  so-called 
‘mainstream’ of hers. 

Our party’s spokesperson and Politburo member Comrade Azad was killed in a fake encounter after he 
declared our stand to this kind of a proposal for talks by this very government and Pratibha Patil is inviting 
us for talks in this backdrop. Incidentally this invitation is being extended exactly one week before his first 
death  anniversary.  Exactly  one  year  back  Chidambaram  and  his  killer  intelligence-police  dogs  must  have 
been  giving  final  touches  to  the  conspiracy  to  kill  him.  The  state  headed  by  this  President  responded  by 
killing him when he clearly placed before the people of this country and the world our party’s stand about 
talks. Later too many veteran Maoist leaders were arrested and put in jails and this is a continuous process. 
Even Maoist leaders as old as 60 or 70 years are also put in jails and tortured apart from not providing them 
minimum medical treatment. False cases are foisted on them in dozens of states and the state is conspiring to 
keep them in jails lifelong. 

 

Our earnest appeal to the people of our country ! 

Demand the President that the ‘War on People’ by the Indian State – OGH be stopped immediately, that 
Army training in Bastar be stopped and that Army and paramilitary forces be withdrawn from all the Maoist 
movement  areas  before  the  government  proposes  for  any  ‘Peace  Talks’.  If  the  government  is  ready  to 
implement this, then the counter-violence of people done in self-defence would stop from the very next day! 
Demand the President that all MoUs signed between the governments and the MNCs be scrapped before 
the  government  talks  about  ‘development’,  that  all  projects  which  grab  the  lands  of  the  people  be 

 

1

immediately stopped and that the government should accept that people have the right to decide what kind of 
a development they want before the government talks of ‘development’! 

Demand the President that all the scamsters and corrupt politicians should be arrested and punished, that 
all the black money stashed away in foreign banks must be brought back to the country and that all ministers 
and  political  leaders  be  stripped  of  their  posts  and  publicly  punished  before  the  government  invites  the 
Maoists to join the ‘mainstream’! 

 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

 

2

