COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

4 June, 2011 

Deployment Of Army In The Name Of Training Schools Puts 

The Very Existence Of The Aborigines and Inhabitants Of Bastar In Peril! 

Forest Belongs To The Indigenous People (Mulvasis) – 

The Government Doesn’t Have Any Right Over Even An Inch Of It! 

Indian Army GO BACK – Do Not Kill Your Own Citizens! 

While the Bastar adivasi peasants are readying themselves for the monsoons to till their lands so that they can feed 
their  children  and  families  throughout  the  year  –  unknown  to  them,  silently  and  stealthily  the  central  and  state 
governments have completed the preparations for another kind of monsoons. These ‘monsoons’ do not rain droplets of 
water but bullets and shells, rockets and cannon balls  and would irrigate their lands with the blood of children, women 
and men – young and old. These ‘monsoons’ promise a lifelong peace and prosperity. Peace it would – as peaceful as a 
graveyard could be and lifelong as their longing for life would come to an end. Of course, prosperity it would be – for 
the imperialists, their running dogs - the ruling classes of India, the corporate vultures, the MNC sharks, the great Indian 
extended family of the comprador bureaucratic bourgeoisie i.e., the chief ministers, ministers, MLAs, MPs, IAS, IPS, 
IFS, bureaucrats etc as now they could lay their greedy hands on the immense wealth buried under this graveyard.  

The home ministry says it wants to ‘clear, hold and build’ in the ‘Maoist areas.’ In our country words have long ago 
ceased to have their original meaning, for which they were created in the first place. Here is the new lexicon– ‘clear’ 
means  massacres,  mopping  up  or  complete  destruction  of  everything,  ‘hold’  means  a  war  of  occupation  and  ‘build’ 
means  absolute  loot  of people’s  resources.  All this  ultimately  results  in  reducing  the people  to a  slave like existence 
complete with absolute surrender to the imperialist slave-owners and this has got its own word – ‘development’. And it 
is  not just  words,  even  institutions  have  changed  their  ‘supposed duties’  in  our  country  (into  their  ‘actual duties’  for 
which they were created, in fact) – the government doesn’t look after the welfare of the people – it bends over backwards 
and crawls on its fours to protect the interests of those who exploit them; the judiciary doesn’t protect the rights of the 
people  –  it  shows  admirable  adroitness  in  finding  ways  to  deny  them;  the  police  think  they  are  the  ‘law’  and  that 
‘ordering around’ restores it; and the Indian Army with impeccable acumen finds ‘enemies’ in the dilapidated huts of 
poor adivasis, in the empty granaries of the bankrupt peasants or in the stench-filled bastis of workers and of course in 
every nook corner of Kashmir and North-East.  

In the first week of June, a thousand-men strong iron heeled column marched its way to Bastar – physically that is. 
Because the Indian Army has been breathing down the necks of Bastar people in many more indirect ways since almost a 
decade. It has been an integral part of all the counter-insurgency operation plans formulated against the Maoists and has 
been training the mercenaries who do that job in hundreds.  In just  Narayanpur the land to be allotted for the Army 
(training school) amounts to 750 sq.kms while the talk is about three training schools and in three districts (Narayanpur, 
Bastar and Bilaspur). This is not counting the previous allotments to army and air-force.  

‘Oh,  no,  don’t  mistake  us,  all  this  is  just  for  the  training  school,  the  army  won’t  enter  into  operations  against 
Maoists, it is just to gain a psychological advantage over the Maoists, to tell them – ‘see a lion is sitting at your door!’ 
says the army. And pray – may the humble citizens ask His Excellency Herr Manmohan what this ‘training’ is for as it is 
he who with great insight discovered that Maoists were the biggest internal security threat? Who are you trying to fool? 
Only a fool would believe that this lion just sits there and roars instead of pouncing on us. Don’t forget, this is a man-
eater on the prowl which has tasted human blood in Kashmir and North-East.  Let us be very clear – this training is 
nothing else but counter-insurgency training ‘to fight the guerilla like a guerilla.’ Unable to contain the armed resistance 
of the most deprived people of Central and Eastern India through their police and paramilitary, the ruling classes of our 
country  have now turned  to  the army  whom  they have  been  ‘grooming’  exactly  for  such purposes  (read  for wars  on 
people). What is the need for another ‘training school’ when there are already so many? And more importantly, why in 
Central India? 

It is as clear as daylight – it is no doubt a training school but it doesn’t stop with training, as soon as a batch finishes 
training it would be ready with its boots and helmets, guns and grenades on to be sent off to its destination to fight the 
Maoists, and it doesn’t cater just to Chhattisgarh but also to Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Western 
Ghats, West Bengal, Odisha and last but not least Andhra Pradesh. That explains the location of it. 

Following  the  policy  of  ‘draining  the  water  to  catch  the  fish’,  the  central  and  state  governments,  with  the  close 
guidance of their mentors – the US imperialists - are implementing the ‘Low Intensity Conflict’ (LIC) strategy, applying 

 

it ‘creatively’ to the concrete conditions in India. This can be in such ‘indigenous forms’ like - in preparation for the 
deployment of army and ‘draining water’ – now Maad adivasis do not get to buy rice anywhere nearby their dwellings. 
They get them only from towns (and only in such quantities so that the Maoists do not take some rice from them) from 
shops which are actually police camps. Even the namesake schools from the hamlets are being shifted to pucca buildings 
on the road-side and would exist in the name of that hamlet which would be at least 60 to 100 kms away. Next the army 
would step in and ‘clear’ the forest of all inhabitants and herd them off to strategic hamlets which are a euphemism for 
concentration camps. At the higher level, the recent hobnobbing exercises of Indian and US ruling classes for ‘helping 
each other’ in Homeland Security were done in preparation for the crueler phase of this War on People – the Phase Two 
of the Operation Green Hunt as it is being called.  

No people in this world without a land to claim as their own could wage battles against their enemies. The ruling 
classes know this truth more than anybody else and this is exactly what it is planning to do. In the name of training 
schools it is occupying thousands of square kilometers of land and in the name of strategic hamlets it is rendering the 
adivasis and forest dwellers homeless and everybody knows that forest IS their home. So, revolutionaries, democrats, 
civil rights activists and particularly the adivasi organizations must realize the whole conspiracy behind the smokescreen 
of army training schools. It is the need of the hour to assert loudly that Jal, Jungle and Jameen belongs to the indigenous 
people  (Mulvasis)  of  Bastar,  who  represent  one  of  the  most  ancient  inhabitants  of  the  world  and  to  the  Mulvasis  of 
Central and Eastern India. 

True, the government must be questioned about land acquisition, throwing to wind all laws and regulations it has 
promulgated for adivasi areas (5th schedule, PESA, Forest Rights act etc). Though posing a direct question about its not 
following its own rules is necessary, one must be careful not to give it legitimacy to occupy the forest ‘if it follows its 
rules’. In fact, a conspiracy is under way in the name of land acquisition act to hand over the land of the peasants in a 
‘legal’ manner to the corporates. It would not result in any peaceful transfer of land from one hand to another but would 
remain a naked land-grabbing act which would never be implemented without shedding the blood of the peasants and 
without  destroying  their  livelihoods.  The  first  and  foremost  thing  to  be  done  is  to  declare  that  forest  belongs  to  the 
Mulvasis and that they do not have any ‘elder brother’ named ‘government’ with whom they should share it! 

As  our  party  has  been  consistently  saying  and  as  even  all  genuine  democrats  have  been  expounding  -  all  these 
operation  green  hunts  and  clear-hold-build  policies  are  meant  to  loot  the  immense  mineral  wealth  and  other  natural 
resources in Central and Eastern India. And for this they do not care if a whole community or a civilization is wiped out; 
it would just be a ‘collateral damage’ as taught by their ex-boss ‘Bush’ or their current master ‘Obama’.  

The Central Committee of CPI (Maoist) calls upon the people of Bastar and Chhattisgarh to fight back the Indian 
Army as they had been fighting back the police, paramilitary and vigilante gangs like Salwa Judum to protect their lives 
and livelihoods, to secure the future of their children and to save their mother forest and one of the most ancient cultures 
of this world of which they are the proud inheritors.  

Let the slogans – Forest belongs to the Mulvasis - Not an inch of it to the Sonias-Manmohans-Chidambarams 
and  Raman Singhs, not  to  blood-sucking land  grabbers  masquerading as  chief  ministers and  ministers,  not to 
MNCs, not to Indian corporate sharks, not to mining mafias – reverberate in every corner of Central and Eastern 
India. Mobilize to the very last member in the family – children and elders, young and old, women and men with the 
slogan – Indian Army Go Back, do not kill your own citizens.  

We have seen many offensives, but this new offensive using the army puts the very existence of the aborigines and 
inhabitants of the forests in Central and Eastern India in peril. It is a question of life and death. If we let them prevail, the 
consequences would be very bleak and may lead to many decades of dark years. Sacrifices and acts of bravery are not 
new  to  us.  It  is  a  specific  characteristic  of  our  history  of  struggle  against  colonial  rule  that  the  most  consistent, 
continuous,  militant  armed  struggles against  the British  colonialists were  waged  by  the adivasis  of  this  country.  And 
some of the most glorious chapters in it belong to the Santhals and Bastar adivasis during the Santhal rebellions and 
Mahan Bhumkal of 1910 respectively. It is this struggle legacy from our fore fathers and mothers which we  have to 
evoke now if we have to save everything that is precious to us, everything that is dear to our heart – everything that 
makes us breathe free. So let us fight the enemies of the people to the end. Let us fight back everything which seeks to 
reduce us to a slave-like existence in the name of ‘development’. 

We appeal to all the revolutionary, democratic and patriotic organizations and particularly the adivasi organizations 
in India and abroad to raise your voice against the deployment of army in Central and Eastern India and do everything in 
your means to expose, to fight back and stop this war of the Indian government on its own citizens. 

 
(Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

 

