COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 
DANDAKARANYA SPECIAL ZONAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release 

OPPOSE THE ARMY DEPLOYMENT IN BASTAR! 

TALK OF 'TRAINING' IS NOTHING BUT A PLOY TO DECEIT THE PEOPLE! 

June 3, 2011 
 

GIVING POWERS TO THE ARMY TO ATTACK IN THE PRETEXT OF 'SELF‐DEFENSE' 
IS NOTHING BUT FREE‐HAND FOR MASSACRES AND ATROCITIES ON ADIVASIS! 
 
As  the  first  column  of  the  Indian  Army  arrived  in  Kanker,  the  formal  process  of  Army 
deployment in Bastar has commenced. But hiding this fact from the eyes of the people, the rulers 
are  propagating  falsehood  that  the  Army  was  coming  here  just  for  training  and  not  to  fight  the 
Maoists. It’s being said that in the name of ‘self defense’, the ministries of Defence and Law had 
issued ‘guiding principles’ for the Army, but nobody is ready to reveal the details. It’s noteworthy 
that the Air Force was already given the right to attack in ‘self-defense’. 

The Central and State governments have been hiding the fact that this was obvious deployment 
and have been telling the world that they were just coming here for a training as part of their ploy of 
deceiving  the  people  and  pacifying  those  democratic  forces  who  have  been  outrageous  against 
Army deployment. The glaring fact is that the Army is now deployed in the ongoing war against 
people  of  our  country.  After  Kashmir  and  North-East  regions,  now  the  Indian  Army  is  going  to 
wage  a  brutal  war  against  most  oppressed  people  of  India.  Now  the  apprehensions  seem  to  be 
realized  that  the  draconian  law  -  AFSPA  (Armed  Forces  Special  Powers  Act)  would  also  be 
proclaimed in Bastar. 

In fact the government gave free-hand to the Army and Air Force to attack the people in the 
name  of  ‘self-defense’,  as  there  are  no  measures  defined  for  clear-cut  demarcation  between  a 
Maoist combatant and an ordinary citizen. Since 2005, first in Salwa Judum and now in Operation 
Green Hunt, state armed forces set ablaze more than 700 villages; murdered more than 1500 people; 
raped hundreds of Adivasi women; burnt down the crops; looted the villages; and forced tens of 
thousands  of  people  to  flee  from  their  native  places.  Recent  carnage  of  Chintalnar  was  just  an 
example  of  ongoing  state  terror  in  Dandakaranya.  And  now,  with  the  Army  taking  part  in  this 
onslaught and with all powers granted to it in the name self-defense, the massacres of Adivasis and 
brutalities would increase manifold. This would pose a big question mark on the very existence of 
the Adivasi community. Particularly, the Jal-Jungle-Zameen and the ancient cultural heritage of the 
Mariya tribes, the indigenous residents of Maad, would be vanished. 

A  heated  discussion  is  going  on  across  the  country  on  the  issue  of  land  grab  these  days. 
Particularly, in the context of Uttar Pradesh incidents, all political parties belonging to the ruling 
classes  including  Congress  and  BJP  have  been  portraying  themselves  as  the  ‘champions  of 
peasants’  and  vaguely  speaking  against  the  forceful  land  acquisitions  as  part  of  promoting  their 
vested political interests. But all these ‘champions’ are keeping themselves mum on this huge land 
grab taking place in one of the most backward Adivasi areas of the country in the name of Army 
training.  BJP’s  Raman  Singh  government  has  decided  to  uncaringly  give  away  as  much  as  750 
square  kilometers  of  land  in  the  Maad  area  of  Narayanpur district  for  one  of  the  three  proposed 
training schools to be set up. Raman Singh, the man who has been trumpeting his cheap tactic of 
selling one kilogram of chana per month for 5 rupees to each adivasi family in Bastar region, is 
completely unmasked now. There has neither been any debate nor been any discussion about the 
decision  of  giving  away  such  a  huge  portion  of  precious  land  and  forest.  Laws  like  PESA 
(Panchayat Extension to Scheduled Areas) and 5th Schedule have become a joke here. The local 
Mariya people of Maad region are completely unaware that the land on which they have been living 
for thousands of years and the forest with whose support they have been able to survive till this day, 

are no more of them. One fifth of the total 4,000 square kilometers area of Maad region would now 
be given away to the army. It would be expanded further according to the reports coming in media. 
As  Army  vehicles  started  moving  into  Bastar,  the  Steel  Authority  of  India  Limited  (SAIL)  has 
declared that the Raoghat mining project would be privatized and a global tender notice would be 
issued. This makes the picture very clear now. On one side there would be a vast Army base and on 
the other side of the Maad region the MNCs would fall in line in a rush to plunder the precious iron 
ore from Raoghat hills. The mining mafia would become active with their pending mining projects 
and the lands of the tribal people would be acquired forcefully. Now it’s not at all difficult to realize 
who is coming with what intension and what the interrelation between them is!! 

Politically, today the Maoist movement is posing a serious challenge to the pro-imperialist neo-
liberal policies being implemented by the servile rulers of our country. The struggles of Adivasis 
and the Maoists who are leading them have become gravest threat for the ruling classes of India and 
their imperialist masters, who are hell-bent on looting huge deposits of precious minerals from the 
Adivasi  regions  in  particular.  In  Chhattisgarh,  Jharkhand,  Odisha,  Andhra  Pradesh,  Bihar,  West 
Bengal and other states, hundreds of MoUs that were signed by state governments and the corporate 
houses  are  not  getting  implemented  due  to  the  opposition  posed  by  people.  Particularly  in 
Dandakaranya,  several  projects  of  big  corporate  houses,  such  as  mines,  big  dams  and  heavy 
industries have been held up due to organized protests and resistance struggles of the people. To 
sum up, in Dandakaranya the exploiters’ juggernaut of ‘development’ has not been able to move 
forward. That’s why they have been waging this brutal war against the people in which now the 
Army is involved. 

The Bastariya Adivasis have never bowed their head to exploitation, injustice, suppression and 
alien  rule.  They  have  a  glorious  history  of  several  rebellions  against  the  British  colonialists.  In 
1910, at the time of Mahan Bhumkaal, a great tribal uprising, the British rulers had deployed the 
army against the people of Bastar. Now, after a hundred years, the rulers have once again sent the 
Army  so  that  their  just  struggles  could  be  crushed  cruelly.  We  call  upon  the  people  of 
Dandakaranya  to  face  this  challenge  boldly.  People  are  the  creators  of  history!  So,  the  ultimate 
victory will only be theirs!! 

Our  Special  Zonal  Committee  appeals  to  all  democrats,  human  rights  organizations,  anti-
displacement  movements,  Adivasis’  organizations,  and  well-wishers  of  Adivasis,  intellectuals, 
writers, Artistes and media persons to raise their voice against setting up of Army training schools 
in Bastar and the proposed huge land grab meant for this purpose. Come forward to build agitations 
with the slogan - “Indian Army, Go back from Bastar”. Oppose the deployment of the Army in the 
ongoing war against people in the name of training schools. Demand to scrap all those MoUs signed 
by the government of Chhattisgarh with big corporate houses and all those projects of forceful land 
acquisition. 

 

 
(Gudsa Usendi) 
Spokesperson 
Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee 
CPI (Maoist) 

