 

COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (MAOIST) 

CENTRAL COMMITTEE 

Press Release

 

                                                                               November 27, 2010 

Unified Action Plan To 'Develop' Maoist Stronghold Districts 
Is Not Aimed To Solve Any Basic Problems Of The People,  

But To Crush The Revolutionary Movement! 
Punish Traitors Severely, Who Are Involved In 

Scams Of Billions Of Rupees Of Hard Earned People's Money!! 

Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, yesterday on 26th November, has approved Central 
Planning  Commission's  Rs  137.42  billion  'Unified  Action  Plan'  to  'develop'  naxal  affected  areas. 
Two year long, Rs. 33 billion package of the first phase announced by Home Minister is to spend 
Rs 250 millions in each of the districts of the 9 naxal affected states in the year 2010-11 and Rs. 300 
millions for each of the districts in the year 2011-12. He said cabinet committee will review it after 
2 years. These rulers claim that, by providing basic amenities in these poor tribal districts, where 
more than 50% of the population live below poverty line, want to achieve 'development' and thus 
aim to solve naxal 'problem'. As per them, basic 'amenities' include primarily roads, later panchayat 
buildings, electricity, school buildings, education and health. On the one hand, since one year these 
rulers,  in  the  name  of  Operation  Green  Hunt,  have  deployed  more  than  200  thousands  of 
paramilitary forces and massacred hundreds of tribal people, now on the other hand, in these same 
areas  want  to  spend  millions  of  rupees.  Is  it  for  the  benefit  of  people?  Or  is  it  to  further  its 
repression  on  the  people?  It  is  easy  to  understand.  While  making  this  announcement,  Home 
Minister  P.  Chidambaram  insisted  to  spend  all  the  money  by  end  of  the  March  next  and  show 
'development'. Involving police department in the programme and placing district superintendents 
of police in these committees is nothing but an effort to put a 'developmental' mask to their fascist 
repressive measures. Is construction of roads and buildings for 'people living below poverty line'? 
Or is it to facilitate state's armed forces, which are carrying out killings at will and crushing their 
right to live. Any adivasi living in these areas can answer this question. Hiding the fact that, by 
occupying the buildings of educational institutions, armed forces have themselves become a great 
hindrance to the very education, want to spend billions of rupees to improve educational facilities is 
an outright deceit. These rulers never bothered, at the loss of lives of adivasis every year for minor 
diseases like diarrhea and fevers can not be trusted, when want to improve medical facilities under 
these packages. 

In fact, since the last two months not a single day passed without the news of scams. People are 
witnessing,  how  tens  of  billions  of  people's  money  is  being  whacked  away  by  corrupt  political 
leaders,  ministers,  big  bureaucrats,  corporate  bosses  and  noted  media  barons.  These  rulers,  who 
shout on top of their voice that Maoists are the biggest internal security threat and their bankrupt 
intellectuals  who  beat  the  drums  in  unison  are  the  real  big  dacoits.  This  can  be  easily  realised 
without  referring  history.  Commonwealth  Games  scam  (nearly  one  billion  rupees),  2G  spectrum 
scam  (above  one  billion  rupees),  Adarsh  housing  society  scandal,  Karnataka  land  scams  etc.  are 
enough of evidence. Congress, BJP, DMK, Janata Dal like exploitative ruling class parties are all, 
without  exception,  part  of  this  outright  plunder.  All  these  scams  are  more  nakedly  and  blatantly 
getting  exposed  before  the  people.  Maoist  understanding  that  the  only  way  out  is  to  smash  this 

deep-rooted,  corrupt,  exploitative  system  completely  is  day  by  day  getting  more  people's 
acceptance. This is what is threatening these exploitative ruling classes. 

By all these scams, which are visible to naked eye, one can easily guess to where and in whose 
pockets millions of rupees of money by these economic packages would end up. It's worth noting 
that  these  rulers  are  not  afraid  of  the  people  that  they  will  mock  at  them,  when  they  say  that 
'development' will take place by these economic packages. If we note the fact that Montek Singh 
Ahluwalia,  vice-chairperson  of  the  planning  commission,  who,  designed  this  economic  package, 
Chidambaram,  who  approved  it,  both  of  them  have  sincerely  and  reliably  served  in  imperialist 
financial  institutions  and  imperialist  corporate  houses  and  the  leader  of  this  ruling  clique,  Prime 
Minister Manmohan Singh, who himself spent most of his life in the service of imperialist financial 
and monetary institutions, then it is easy to understand who will be the end beneficiary. On the one 
hand, signing hundreds of billions of rupees of MOUs with corporations, facilitating the plunder of 
country's  resources  in  tribal  areas,  threatening  the  very  existence  of  tribal  populations,  turning  a 
deaf ear to the demand by the people and democratic forces to make all MOUs public and cancel 
them all, on the other hand, talking of 'Development' is a big joke. 

We, the Central Committee of CPI (Maoist) severely oppose this anti-people 'Unified Action 
Plan'.  Our  CC  feels  that  this  is  a  part  of  the  fascist  repressive  campaign  by  the  centre  and  state 
government-sponsored  Operation  Green  Hunt  and  facilitate  it  further.  The  claim  that,  backward 
areas will be developed is a farce, a deceit. The governments, if at all sincere, should first give all 
rights over Jal-Jungle-Jameen to adivasis and poor people; cancel all MOUs signed with MNCs 
and big corporate companies; stop all those projects of big dams, mines, sanctuaries, big steel plants 
and SEZs which would displace hundreds of thousands of people; and stop Operation Green Hunt 
immediately under which adivasis are being massacred. 

On  this  occasion,  our  Central  Committee  demand  to  arrest  and  punish  severely  all  those 
political leaders, ministers and corporate houses' heads involved in Commonwealth Games scam, 
Adarsh  housing  society  scam,  Karnataka  land  scams  etc.;  and  all  those  saffron  terrorist  leaders 
involved in Malegaon, Ajmer Sharif, Mecca Masjid etc. bomb explosions. 

 

 
 (Abhay) 
Spokesperson, 
Central Committee, 
CPI (Maoist) 

