CPI(Maoist): 9th Congress 
 
 

Resolution on State Violence against 

Women 

 
The Unity Congress-9th Congress of the CPI (Maoist) condemns 
the increasing atrocities against women all over the country, 
especially the repression and atrocities of the State forces and state 
sponsored vigilante groups. The most widespread and brutal 
attacks have been on Adivasi women in Dandakaranya in the name 
of Salwa Judum. Both the para-military forces and counter-
revolutionary vigilante Salwa Judum groups have resorted to 
raping and killing many women in inhuman ways in their 
campaign to crush the revolutionary movement and the spirit of the 
people. Budri was shot dead on her way to the Basaguda market. 
Korsa lakke and Sukki of Korma village were gang raped and 
killed while returning after performing sentry duties for protecting 
the village. Penta of Arwel village was killed by the Salwa Judum 
goons in the Dornapal camp because she refused to bring the rest 
of her villagers to the camp. These are only a tip of the ice berg of 
the atrocities on Adivasi women of Bastar. 

They have forcibly driven thousands out of their homes and 
villages and detained them in relief camps which are in fact 
concentration camps. The conditions there are sub-human. Women 
and children are the worst sufferers of these conditions, their 
physical and mental health have been badly affected. Sexual 
exploitation is also going on in these camps. Even teenage Adivasi 
girls recruited as Special Police Officers (SPO) by the Government 
are being subject to sexual exploitation. This is similar to the 
situation in Kashmir and the North-East where the masses are 
struggling for national liberation. Manipuri women struggling 

against the draconian Armed Forces Special Powers Act have been 
subjected to atrocities by the Army and Sharmila Irom on a hunger 
strike too has been repeatedly arrested. 

To suppress the revolutionary peasant struggle in West Midnapore, 
Bankura and Purulia the police and social fascist CPM goons are 
perpetrating different types of heinous crimes against women. 

Women active in political movements especially the revolutionary 
movements are being arrested in large numbers. The jails of Bihar, 
Jharkhand, Chattisgarh, Maharashtra, and Karnataka bear witness 
to this. In Malkangiri of Orissa ten women were imprisoned in 
September 2004 and not yet released. In Koraput district, people 
protested against rape of village women by CRPF jawans of Kalab 
camp. 

In Orissa, comrade Shobhadi, the inspiration and driving force of a 
vast rural women’s movement in Jharkhand, Bihar and Orissa, and 
comrades Lata and Jaya, District Committee Members in Andhra 
Pradesh, were incarcerated on trumped up charges. 

Comrade Chaiti Pallo of Dandakaranya and comrade Lalitha of 
Gondia (Maharashtra) have been sentenced to life imprisonment. 
Several others are serving sentences in Orissa, West Bengal, 
Karnataka etc. The whereabouts of several women activists 
arrested by the Jharkhand police is unknown. State sponsored 
vigilante groups like the Cobras are threatening progressive 
women activists in Andhra Pradesh. Women PLGA members are 
being tortured and shot down even after arrest. In the last two years 
more than 50 women have been thus killed. The most recent is the 
cold-blooded killing of comrade Karuna by the special task force 
of Andhra police. Andhra police trample underfoot even the basic 
human rights by way of hand-cuffing the arrested women. They 
brought the wounded women activists who participated in 
Ganganagar (Visakhapatnam) fishery workers’ agitation to hospital 

with hand-cuffs. 

To suppress the peasant movement against land acquisition in 
Singur in West Bengal the social fascist CPM goons raped and 
killed Tapasi Malik, a leader of the movement. In the movement in 
Kalinganagar against land acquisition among those shot dead 
include women. In brief, the ruling classes and their armed forces 
are using violence against women as one of their weapons. 

Brahminical violence against women continues unabated. The 
brutal rape and killing of Surekha and Priyanka in Khairlanjhi by 
state-backed upper caste forces is a horrifying example of this. At 
the same time the spread of a debased patriarchal culture by the 
imperialists has led to an alarming increase in molestation and 
rapes of women in big cities. Women’s insecurities have increased. 

The Unity Congress—9th Congress calls upon all sections of 
women and democrats to oppose the violence being perpetrated by 
the state forces and vigilante forces on women. It also calls upon 
them to oppose the violence in the name of Salva Judum, the cold-
blooded killings in the name of encounters and the arrest of 
politically active women. It further demands the immediate release 
of comrade Shobhadi and other revolutionary political prisoners. 
This Congress calls upon all oppressed, exploited women to rise up 
against oppression and join the revolutionary movement for 
liberation. 

