We Will Spread this Fire 

 

[Comrade Manoj, a prominent CPI (Maoist) leader  

in Lalgarh tells his story to The Times of India.] 

 
 
My  name  is  Manoj.    It’s  not  the  name  my  parents  gave  me,  but  all  my  comrades  call  me 
‘Manoj’.  My father’s name is Dhiren Murmu.  I am his second son and I am 25.  I was born at 
Bamundanga village in Salboni.  I’ve lived most of my life in this hopeless village. 

 
Our village falls under the Kansijora gram panchayat.  The left Front has been in power here 
for  30  years.    Salboni  has  always  been  a  CPM  stronghold.    But,  in  30  years,  neither  the  state 
government, nor the panchayat and Zilla Parishad took any interest at all in developing this area.  
We might have been living in the Stone Age. 

 
When  it  rains  here,  the  dirt  tracks  turn  muddy  and  we  are  forced  to  drag  ourselves  and  our 
cattle through the muck.  We are not able to ride our bicycles or use carts.  We don’t have clean 
drinking water.  People are forced to drink filthy, yellow water.  After sunset, we live in the dark 
as there is no  electricity here.  No jobs either.  During the paddy season, we work in the fields 
and  then  sit  idle  for  the  rest  of  the  year.    Because  we  are  tribals,  no  one  has  bothered  to  do 
anything for us. 

 
In  2002,  we  got  tired  of  being  treated  like  rodents.    So,  the  villagers  got  together  and 
demanded  development  in  our  area.  This  infuriated  the  local  CPM  bosses.    The  police  and 
Marxists slapped false cases on us, accusing us of working for the People’s War Group (PWG).  
They branded us Maoists.  So we began to think we might as well join the Maoists. 

 
Things  turned  nasty  quickly.    The  former  police  superintendent  of  West  Midnapore,  KC 
Meena, lodged an FIR against the entire village.  Nearly 90% of the men and teenage boys were 
charged  with  being  Naxalite.    We  knew  what  was  coming.    We  had  to  do  something  to  save 
ourselves. 

 
I was just 18 at the time.  I was in class XII at the local school.  But, I too joined in protests 
against the police.  Within days, the police filed a case against me, my father and brother.  They 
accused all of us for working for the PWG.  Our family has always supported the Congress party.  
In 1988, when Mamata Banerjee formed the Trinmool Congress (TMC), we switched loyalty to 
her. 
 

One  day,  police  jeeps  rolled  into  our  villages,  picked  up  people  from  their  houses,  bundled 
everyone into their vehicles and dumped all of us into the Midnapore jail.  That was where I first 
met Maoist leader Sushil Roy [comrade Barunda].  I found the Maoist ideology very appealing.  
Roy asked me to join the Maoists so that I could help the poor.  I liked his ideas.  Then I met two 
PWG leaders in prison.  And I realized that neither Congress nor the TMC can stop the CPM’s 
terror.  I also realized that under CPM rule, we had lost the right to speak up.  It was time to take 
a stand and speak up. 

 
I joined the Maoists.  They gave me a new name, a new identity and a new life.  Now, I work 
for  the  Lalgarh  movement.    I  joined  this great  surge  of  people  last  year.    On  November  5,  the 
police  arrived  here  looking  for  people  who  had  blasted  landmines  at  chief minister  Buddhadeb 
Bhatacharya’s convoy at Salboni.  In Lalgarh, the police rounded up innocent tribal women and 
began  to  molest  and torture  them.   One woman lost an eye.   Others were badly injured.   After 
this  incident,  we  decided  to  join  the  Lalgarh  movement.    It  was  our  party’s  decision.    The 
Maoists always stand with the deprived.  We joined them at Nandigram and Singur.  Now, we 
have joined them in Lalgarh. 

 
It’s been easy for us to win the people’s support.  Most of them have been victims of torture 
by police.  The people listened to us and joined the Peoples’ Committee against Police Atrocities 
(PCPA).  Opposition party  workers have also supported us.  Everybody is rebelling against the 
CPM cadre and police. 

 
We  know  the  government  forces  want  to  crush  us.    But,  we  plan  to  expand  our  area  of 
influence.    As  soon  as  we  are  able  to  turn  Lalgarh  and  Junglemahal  (a  forested  area  spanning 
three  districts  –  Bankura,  Purulia  and  West  Midnapore)  into  a  Maoist-dominated area,  we  will 
apply  our  ideology  here.    We  will  undertake  development  work  for  the  poor.    We  will  raise 
money through public donations.  And nobody will pay tax to the government anymore. 

 
After  victory  at  Lalgarh,  we  will  expand  our  fight  to  the  tribal  communities  of  Jharkand, 

Bihar, Orissa and Chattisgarh.  Our war has just begun. 

 
[June 21, 2009, Sunday Times of India] 

 
 
 

[From: People’s Truth, #7, August 2009.] 

