Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, November 15, 2018  The national mobilization for water, life and against corruption convened by the CONAIE, in a coordinated manner in different regions of the country was activated with several measures in fact on Thursday, November 15, historical date of struggle for the labor movement and movement Indigenous of Ecuador. 
In the Amazon, the organizations of the Province of Pastaza, the Kichwa town of Santa Clara who maintained taken the Amazonian trunk for 6 days, at dawn today, after an intense dialogue between the governor, Public Force and Protesters, raised the Closure of the road, and signed an Act of Engagement with the ING. 
Pablo Landivar, Governor of Pastaza, the leadership of the ponakics, represented by Cristian Aguinnda and the president of the Conféniae, Marlon Vargas, through which, the provincial authority guarantees the immediate departure of the company Genefran S. 
A of the Kichwa territory within a maximum period of 48 hours, otherwise announced that actions will be intensified. 
In the province of Cotopaxi, the indigenous and peasant movement (MICC) performed with massive convocation the great provincial mobilization to demand responses to the redistribution of water, the alleged bombing to the clouds, low price of milk, community transport, among other demands . 
They toured the main streets of Latacunga and kept closed for an hour the E35, main route of the province, finally, in the Popular Assembly held in El Salto Square, resolved setting a period of 30 days for the authorities to give concrete answers to the Demands or, otherwise, will harden the actions. 
After his arrival at Quito and after the delivery of the Project of Organic Law of Prohibition of Metallic Mining in Ecuador to the National Assembly, the Water March of ECUARNARI, began on Thursday, November 15, its twelfth mobilization day, first Time attended the Council for Citizen Participation and Social Control to exhibit details of the bill to prohibit metallic mining throughout the territory, prevent more licenses and concessions; and to demand prior, free and informed consultation in the territories. 
Jaime Vargas, President of the CONAIE, and the Delegation of ECUARNARI delivered Julio César Trujillo, president of the CPCCS, a document for the protection of nature and in rejection of mining farms. 
Subsequently, they marched towards the Plaza Grande waiting to be received by President Lenín Moreno, or representatives of the Executive, however, a strong police fence prevented them from the passage. 
In the General Assembly In the park, the tree for unanimously decided to give deadline until the end of January 2019 so that the Government and the National Assembly give answers on the bill to prohibit metal mining in national territory. 
In the framework of the National Mobilization of the Conaie, the Peoples of the Coast, the indigenous movement of Guayas (Mig), the interfering of Peoples Blankets, Guancavilcas, Punaes, Comunas Barcelona, Old Houses, San Antonio, Montubio Movement, Workers and Marginal Barrios de Guayaquil marched against the patel, for the water, defense of the territories and decent work, toured from Av. 
October 9th until the River Guayas where they set sail the crossings of the struggle of the peoples, as a symbol of resistance, commemorating the 96 years of the massacre of the workers and peasants of 1922. 
The women of the nationalities and peoples of the Amazon remain firm in their struggle for the defense of the Yasuní and not concessions in blocks 86 and 87. 
After lifting the take at the Hydrocarbons Secretariat, together with the Yasunidas collective convened a seedlings and press conference in front of the announcement that the treatment of the report that verifies the process that annulled the process that annulled the Popular consultation raised by Yasunidos and that urges the Electoral Agency to include in the General Call of Sectional Elections of March 2019 the question posed by the Collective. 
In the province of Imbabura, the carriers closed the roads with vehicles and other obstacles as a measure of rejection of the reform to the Traffic Law that alvert the National Assembly, as they claim that they have not been taken into account. 
They raised the measure of fact after getting a meeting for Tuesday, November 21 with the Minister of Transport and Public Works and the Director of the National Traffic Agency to deal with the reforms to the traffic law and the operation of the radars that control radars The vehicular speed in that province. 
Conaie communication  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
