Earth, culture and freedom  Long live the national indigenous lifting!  Long live the unit of the popular sectors for a fair cause!  (Mandate of June 1990)  At 30 years of the 1990 Inti Raymi lifting, the indigenous movement is a fundamental political actor in Ecuador, with full awareness of his cultural, political and historical identity and consistent with a national political project that seeks to change power structures, through of time, in the various struggles has promoted and achieved demands for the social and economic system for the benefit of indigenous peoples and nationalities and all exploited, such as land tenure and defense, indigenous territories and natural resources, collective rights, Bilingual intercultural education, intercultural health, recognition of the plurinational nature of our society and the State. 
In the collective memory of Ecuador, as of the 1990s, the organizational structure of the indigenous movement is a benchmark of social movements, organizations and collectives, history shows that in June 1990, unity, organizational strengthening is achieved. Politician and his class posture because of the transcendental influence of leftist militants in the consolidation of leadership, structure and political program, based as a paradigm of social struggle and claiming the rights of the Ecuadorian people. 
In 1990, resistance actions begin on May 28 with the peaceful take of the Church of Santo Domingo in Quito, the following days and with the most force are activated mobilizations of impressive call from Monday, June 4, from then on Actions were uncontrollable in the provinces of Cotopaxi, Tungurahua, Bolívar, Chimborazo, Imbabura and Pichincha, subsequently would join the base organizations of Azuay, Cañar, Loja and the Amazon Region, the indigenous uprising thus demonstrated its power. 
Earth, culture and freedom was the voice of struggle of indigenous uprising in 1990 between May 28 and June 11, the indigenous struggle was articulated based on the "mandate for the defense of life and the rights of indigenous nationalities:  We must bear in mind that, exhausted efforts by legal road, the people have the floor. 
For this reason we demand compliance with this mandate by the Government; If not, we have the moral and historical obligation to execute it for ourselves "  (Riccharishun Bulletin No. 
2. 
Indigenous surveys. 
ECUARUNARI, QUITO). 
The fundamental demands of the 1990 indigenous movement revolved around:  Solution and legalization free of charge of land and territories for indigenous nationalities;  Water for irrigation, consumption and non-pollution policies;  Reform of art. 
1 of the Constitution, which declares the plurinational status. 
Require the immediate delivery of budgetary funds for indigenous nationalities, through a bill presented by the CONAIE, discussed and approved by the National Congress. 
Priority works of basic infrastructure of indigenous communities. 
Protection and development of archaeological sites, by the CONAIE and its subsidiary organizations. 
Expulsion of the Summer Language Institute (ILV)  Execute legalization and financing by state to indigenous medicine. 
In this way the events of 1990 are inserted into the history of Ecuador as a huge process of legitimate struggle of the indigenous movement, for current generations presuppose a great responsibility to act accordingly with the processes of social and political transcendence, even more so in the present conditions that crosses Ecuador, the struggle of before and now is against the Servil Governments to IMF and capitalism, for the defense of collective rights of indigenous peoples, labor and student rights, then "does not build the present, without knowing the past ", today more than never need to group unit processes of struggle with the popular field between the indigenous sector, peasant, collective, movements, social and impoverished country organizations and the country of the country to deal with Neoliberal radicalization and a submissive government that attacks the most vulnerable sectors, Community production, the class works Dora, who forces your workforce to pay the crisis. 
In 1990 the structure of the indigenous movement managed to be visible and become a political actor since its organizational power, as a call for its bases and from political-economic thought, to generate and present alternative proposals to the prevailing model, is so for the great Fighting days Victories and claims have been achieved, disputing with political powers and the same state. 
Historically the CONAIE with its regional: Confeniae, ECUARUNARI and CONAICE, together with its base organizations and community governments are mobilized by the defense of land, territories, natural resources, culture and ancestral knowledge, rights of political participation and Decision making, the recognition of public policies and constitutional rights, however, the fight follows. 
In October 2019, the power of the indigenous movement added to the social forces of the union, student, neighborhoods and social groups slowed down Decree 883 and the nefarious claims directed by the IMF and more multilateral credit agencies, a government was high unpopular - antipopular and submissive to economic and financial groups. 
In October 2019, the true unity of the Ecuadorian people from the countryside and the city was demonstrated and it became a reference for struggle for Latin America. 
However, the struggle and social protest must continue. 
In Ecuador, Lenín Moreno, after a disastrous handling of the pandemic, took advantage of the Covid-19 context, the Health Emergency Declaration and the State of Exception to radicalize the Neoliberal adjustment measures dictated by the IMF, national hegemonic power groups and Private banking, which shamelessly moved the weight of the crisis to the working class, where the indigenous and peasants also confer, further impoverishing thousands of families. 
Lenín Moreno with his minister Richard Martínez took the pandemic to circumvent the Ecuadorian people, with the ill-called humanitarian law greatly harms the working class, 150 thousand dismissals, instability, precarization and labor flexibilization, with free way for companies asphyxien to The workers and abuses are allowed and disrespected to the labor rights conquered for decades, the middle and popular class over their shoulders must assume the bad decisions of a government soaked in corruption. 
Social discontent increases by policies that impoverish the country, for this it is necessary to radicalize the unity of the people, of the most impoverished in the field and the city. 
The indigenous movement progressively will be part of these new days of resistance, with its organizational strategy, unity and social support and with consequential proposals with its agenda and political project. 
After 30 years of the 1990 indigenous lifting, the demands of indigenous peoples and nationalities of Ecuador remain, Lenín Moreno and his government have radicalized the IMF impositions and promoted the accumulation of capital in monopolistic groups that evade taxes in favor of their profits and propitiate the escape of capital to tax havens; As in the past, the great landowners, the oligarchy and the national bourgeoisie have declared enemies of the indigenous people, of the working class, of the peasants, of the students, under an accomplice and participant government of acts of serious corruption, In front of this scenario there is class unity and solidarity between indigenous, peasants, workers, unemployed, students, the impoverished of the countryside - city and all sectors affected by the bad decisions of the government, the fight goes because it goes . 
Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
