The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, by commemorating the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women joins all and all those who raise their protest voice against the multiple forms of violence and oppression exercised against women , this violence is the most widespread, persistent and devastating; Indigenous women, we join the struggle of women Montubias, Afro Ecuadorian, mestizas and peasants in this historical and permanent demand year after year. 
Well, it is the day where we join all the voices worldwide to denounce and contribute in the cessation of violence against our women and girls, in this year by the context of the pandemic in confinement, restrictions on free mobility and more Measures implemented to face the health emergency The levels of violence towards women were shot, above all, the violence given in the private sphere, is so the figures are alarming because from January 1 to November 16, 2020 They register 101 feminicides in Ecuador. 
Every 72 hours a woman, girl or adolescent is a victim of feminist violence. 
In 66.3% of cases, feminicides were couples or exploits of victims and 7.9% were the parents themselves, this according to the Alliance for the Monitoring and Mapping of Femicides in Ecuador. 
For societies to coexist in equality, development, peace, with full respect for human rights, it is essential that violence against women is stopped, but it is also urgent that women stay organized and mobilized because, through history The social rights and demands have acquired them through social struggle, remember Rosa Uquillas, Lidia Herrera, the "Black" Julia in the days of November 15, 1922, the Hiking of Dolores Cacuango to Carondelet to demand demands for the workers sector and indigenous, Mama transit trafficking and her struggle for education through clandestine schools for indigenous children and peasants. 
History confirms the fundamental role of women in social struggles. 
According to UN data, 70% of women in the world suffer some type of violence, in Ecuador, 6 out of 10 women has suffered gender violence and 59% of victims are indigenous; What poses a deep reflection on the rights of all women so that they can develop on equal terms in social, economic, cultural, educational, affective and political spheres. 
The struggles carried out by indigenous women do not contemplate only to stop the multiple forms of violence, have a broader sense: to defend the right to life, to the decision on their bodies, territories and natural resources, for all Women who are now unfairly judicialized, by all mothers and wives victims of intrafamily violence, by all women victims of exclusion and invisibilization in labor, organizational, educational spaces, together and together we will continue in the struggle to move towards a development based on In the equality of all and all. 
Long live women's fight!  For the Governing Council:  Jaime Vargas.  President Conaie.  Luisa Lozano.  Female  . 
