Today, August 17, 5 years of the case known as the # 29Desaraguro that reflects the criminalization of social protest against peasants, indigenous, rural teachers and mothers of the Kichwa town of Saraguro. 
That August 17, more than a thousand police and military were sent to Saraguro to exercise a brutal repression and violence in the communities, they carried out incursions in the Community territories and raided homes, in that context there were around 100 peasants, indigenous and judicial workers during The survey and the national unemployment made in 2015, during the government of Rafael Correa. 
The mobilization of Saraguro in August 2015 was carried out within the framework of the call to the bases of the people and nationalities of Ecuador to the high indigenous uprising, in unity with the social sectors and the Ecuadorian people in all the provinces of the country for that date , consequently to the resolutions of the Annual Assembly of the Conaie de Salasaca, Tungurahua. 
The legitimate demands of the protest were mainly exercising our right to resistance against the closure of the Bilingual Intercultural Schools, to recover the autonomy of bilingual intercultural education, stop the dispossession of the lands and territories that the Government promoted through the Law of Land, Water Law and Mining Law, the archive of the proposal of constitutional amendments as promoted the restriction of rights that we have included in the Constitution with our struggle. 
In total there were 29 people the processed ones, of which 12 were called to trial, the prosecution was divided into two groups, in May 2016 a court of criminal guarantees of Loja declared innocent to eight of the 10 indigenous people who integrated the first group of Processed by the crime of obstruction of public service, two were sentenced to sorrows of four years. 
However, on July 25, 2017, the Criminal Guarantee Court of Loja, declared innocent to 10 processed and 5 more in August 2018, after a cassation hearing held in the National Court of Justice. 
The judges after his deliberation ratified the innocence of social fighters. 
In May 2019 after years of an intense judicial process where it was demonstrated that the # 29Dearch were arrested illegally with a system of justice that criminalized social protest, judges: Leonardo Enrique Bravo Gonzalez, Claudio Francisco Segarra Given and Wilson Ramiron Condoy Hurtado After 4 years are called to surrender version by the crime of prevaricate by not declaring the nullity of the preventive prison for the # 29Desaraguro generating violations of the human rights of the processes. 
August 17, 2015 The # 29Dearch were arrested illegally with a system of justice that criminalized social protest. 
In this case the judges: Leonardo Enrique Bravo Gonzalez, Claudio Francisco Segarra Given and Wilson Ramiro Condoy Hurtado after 4 years (thread) pic. 
twitter. 
COM / NSUJRO70JG- CONAIE (@Conaie_Ecuador) May 13, 2019  At 5 years of persecution, criminalization, judicialization and amimidation Saraguro's social fighters demonstrated to justice their innocence, the struggles continue and the peoples and nationalities will not reverse a step in the defense of their rights. 
. 
