Government started Bruges hunt in Nankints  As already announced, the National Government began a Bruges hunt in Nankints to silence Shuar nationality and avoid more protest actions against the implementation of the mining project that carries out the Chinese company explooded S. 
A. 
( ExSA ). 
Indeed, since yesterday, November 30, there have been 41 Shuar to present their versions about the camping of the mining company, occurred on November 21; This diligence will be held in the Office of Gualaquiza until December 10, as reported by the Tarquino Cajamarca lawyer, of the Inredh legal team that has assumed legal assistance in this case. 
The prior investment process No. 
140801816110006, it began with a police part and written denunciation presented by the Minister of the Interior, Diego Torres; They are called to declare 41 people from the communities of Panantza, San Carlos, Tsuintsuim, San Pedro, San Juan Bosco and Nankints. 
It is striking at the payroll all the members of the Parish Board of San Carlos, the President and Vice President of the Parish Board of Panantza, the main leaders of the Shuar Federation of Morona Santiago and leaders of the main Shuar centers of the Area, in addition to the Coordinator of the Pachakutik movement of San Juan Bosco. 
To obtain the payroll of the 41 people, they stopped two Shuar workers of the company, and they were told to declare against Luis Tiwiram and José Esach, leaders of the FISC, who, according to the version of the detained workers, would have been Armed with carbines, and shotguns and would have allowed the use of dynamite during the occupation of the mining camp. 
As a complement, the accusation refers to a press conference that Tiwiram gave, who, supposedly has been declared author of the facts and would have warned that they will fight until the last consequences. 
As you will remember, the Shuar community of Nankints was evicted from its territories last August, to give way to the work of the EXSA mining. 
Even when EXSA argues to own these lands, when analyzing the history of the affected territories we run into several irregularities, all of which aimed at stripping the Shuar nationality of their ancestral territories. 
First, a process of colonization supported by the Ecuadorian Institute of Agrarian Reform and Colonization (IERAC), which allocated land to settlers without considering the existence of consolidated Shuar communities and other Shuar groups dispersed in this territory. 
The conformation of the current parish of Panantza is also given based on legitimizing the colonizing presence, without gathering the necessary requirements and without considering the rights of Shuar communities. 
The lands in hands of settlers became a merchandise and thus they passed by hand in hand until someone, with privileged information or acting from the mining company Explorcobres S. 
A. 
(EXSA), of Canadian nationality in principle, began to buy the land and hoard them. 
In many cases, the purchases were deceptive, especially with Indigenous Shuar, who were purchased at irrisory prices or obtaining them with irregular degrees and possessions. 
The indigenous territory corresponds to the ancestral use and possession that the people have given and the formalities created in order to legitimize the dispossession of their lands lacks any legal value. 
Possession and use are equivalent to the title, so the lands in which the exSA project is developed have never stopped belonging to Shuar nationality, beyond fraudulent titles or legal norms that did not know the ancestral territory. 
Inredh source  . 
