D. 
M. 
, Quito, March 9, 2020  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, CONAIE, in commemoration of March 8 International Women's Day, Historical Date of Memory and Resistance, celebrates the anticipation struggles for the rights of all women, mothers, sisters, grandmothers, girls in the World, in Ecuador this 8m unite to walk together all: Indian women, Montubias, Afro-Menación, mestizas, the countryside and the city. 
We get up and we mobilized us in a single cry to tell the whole world that women are organized to defend our territories, rights and our body, because in Ecuador we are still murdered by the fact of being women, we march by the cessation of the forms of Violence against women; Against discrimination, forced disappearance, trafficking of women and feminicide as the most extreme and aggressive form of violence, we demand the State that it assumes its responsibility with our lives, which does not hide its innoperation, nor corruption, that comes out of silence and The accomplices and that prioritizes the lives of women. 
We mobilized us against exploitation in the territories, in rejection of the precariousness of life, neoliberal and antipopular policies, economic measures that give up life, decreased budgets for education, health, culture, environment, against privatizations of The strategic sectors of the country, the agreement with the IMF and the submission to the structural reforms that impose us at the expense of our sovereignty, to the unconsults and inconvenience of megaminera concessions, we reaffirm us in the defense of a secular, free and quality education. 
This 8m demand justice for our dead, for those who were imprisoned for aborting, because no woman is forced to be a mother, for those who were dismissed from his work, for those who were exploited, for those who were violated by defending their territories, for those who were expropriated From its lands, we demand respect for our rights, bodies and territories, due to the recognition of the rights of peasants and peasants and to establish special protection measures for those who produce most of the foods that supply at the national level. 
In the context of the national arrest and indigenous lifting of October 2019, the participation of women in the field and the city was fundamental and indispensable, daughters, wives, mothers, sisters remained with their voice up, despite being violated by The public force, that is why we demand the immediate cessation of harassment and threats to our partners leaders and social fighters who defended the rights of the Ecuadorian people. 
Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  Luisa Lozano.  Female  . 
