The Coordinator of Social Organizations of the Canton Saraguro, composed of the different existing groupings in the canton, carried out an assembly of accountability and projections to continue with the different actions within the framework of the resistance of the peoples. 
The event was held on Saturday, February 20 at the Municipal Theater with the presence of the President of the Conaie, Jorge Herrera; Patricio Meza, processing of pastry; Luis Rueda, of the coordinator of social organizations of Loja; and the presidents of the Corpukis, Siis, ACIS and other dignities. 
In the event one of the points was the accountability of the activities carried out by the coordinator. 
Reports were presented: politician, legal, economic. 
Throughout the levels, the active participation of the different communities, organizations, the Ranti - Ranti with the criminalized and criminalized was highlighted. 
Regarding projections indicated that they will activate different actions in the lives they gave the report and, in addition, in the communication. 
Patricio Meza, one of the processes of pastry, went to the event in solidarity with the 29 criminalized of the Saraguro people, who from March 21 will be hearing against him. 
Meza stressed that the criminalization policy is not only in Saraguro, but is given nationally. 
He shared his experience and asserted that he is sentenced for 6 jail mese and the payment of 3 basic salaries. 
As Patricio there are several cases at the national level. 
The pastry processes were not empty hands. 
As part of the peoples, they took with them sacred symbols of Amazonian culture; A spear and mocowa. 
Another process made the delivery of the spear, symbol of rebellion, to Julio Lima, Vice President of Corpukis and processed. 
The Mocowa obsequiened Sisa happy, young ranger criminalized. 
Julio Lima intervened on behalf of the 29 of Saraguro and thanked the symbolic act. 
He assured that a group of processing of Saraguro will go to Pastaza in the coming days to demonstrate gratitude and solidarity with the other companions of the Amazon. 
Jorge Herrera, Conaie, pointed out that those who are part of the injustice that the government is committing will have to pay, "Because you can not stay like this." 
He greeted the massive participation of the town in the day of uprising in the month of August of last year. 
He said "This rebel people should not shut up." 
He ratified total support at the different actions that in the area was realized. 
José Sarango, coordinator of canton's organizations, thanked the presence of the national leader of the indigenous movement. 
He invited comuneros and comunas not to decay, not to be afraid. 
He called on the same solidarity spirit for the coming days (from March 21 to April 8 at hearings). 
At approximately at 6:00 pm, the event was completed. 
Look at the video at the time of delivery of the spear and mocowa:  . 
