Ocaru and Fian Ecuador  On Friday, December 4, Ecuador's president, Economist Rafael Correa announced in the media, which after the Assembly approved a first package of amendments to the Constitution, - last Thursday, December 3 - the Government would launch A second group of amendments that must go to the first debate at the beginning of 2016. 
Among the topics that would be part of this new package would be lifting the prohibition of transgenic seed income in the country. 
The 2008 Constitution, approved in consultation by the Ecuadorian people, establishes in article 401 that: "It is declared Ecuador free of crops and transgenic seeds." 
However, in recent years, the Government of the Citizen Revolution has expressed its dissatisfaction with this articulated and has suggested flexibilities. 
Thus, the President Citizen Liaison Correa of September 1, 2012, mentioned that "transgenic seeds can quench the productivity of agro, resolving poverty in the field, and that the articulate that prohibits its use , he was driven by "child ecology". 
Likewise, in October 2013, the Ministry of the Environment issues a radial wedge on the potential and opportunities of the use of transgenic corn seed; And in the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture, livestock, aquaculture and fishing for the change of the productive matrix, the strategy of using transgenic soybeans and canola seeds is emphasized to increase productivity levels [1]. 
As an observatory of rural change and Fian Ecuador, we argue on the pressure of agribusiness capital and the intentions of the current Government that, through its assembly majority, aims to approve a reform that allows the use of transgenics in Ecuador. 
Consequently, this would violate several rights contemplated by constitutional mandate and international treaties signed by the Ecuadorian State: Right to public health, right to adequate food and non-contamination, collective rights, right to nature and peasants' rights. 
This violation of rights deepens the dependence of the country, its peasants and peasants, of peoples and nationalities, its family economies and attentive against its autonomy, through the monopoly of transnational corporations (Monsanto, Syngenta, among others) that control the business of the genetically modified organisms. 
Transgenics do not constitute any option to reduce poverty in the field; Those countries that use transgenics, such as Mexico, have not been able to decrease the indices of poverty, on the contrary, has meant a process of loss of autonomy and biodiversity and the displacement of peasants to cities. 
Substantial modifications to the articulate for prohibition of transgenic seed income means an attack on food sovereignty, established as an obligation and strategic axis of the State in the current Constitution (art. 
282) And the worsening of the living conditions of those who live the field: peasants, peasants and rural workers. 
Ocaru and Fian Ecuador, December 8, 2015. 
[1] Cuña radial: https://www. 
youtube. 
With / Watch? v = xjyvr3ezqmq  Sabatina: https: // www. 
youtube. 
com/watch?v=TTerzreKfcM

. 
