D. 
M. 
Quito, April 8, 2019  Press release  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, Solidarizes with Luis Alberto Picuasi Guaján, Ecuadorian Indigenous Migrant of 34, native of the Guanansi, Otavalo Community (Imbabura), who died in a confusing recorded in Santiago de Chile last Thursday, April 4, 2019, in a context between members of Carabineros and municipal inspectors with street merchants at the site known as the ULA Metro (Central Station Community). 
In the current political and economic landscape, large Latin American cities have an overflow of migratory flow, the search for better living conditions and obstacles to inserted in the formal labor market to survive in another country, leads families to opt for trade informal and walking as the only alternative. 
The death of our compatriot Luis Alberto Picuasi Guaján leads us to reflect on this dramatic background of immigration. 
We condemn this fact against our migrant brothers who work honestly by selling their products on the streets and squares of other countries, in this case, as a Kichwa Member Otavaleño, since this migrant community is considered as the most extensive of Ecuadorian origin and that is mainly dedicated to the sale of high quality handicrafts throughout the world. 
Systematic, the municipal policies and ordinances applied in Latin American capital cities as they refer to the control of informal trade, attack human rights, the right to work and the search for a life worthy of those who are street merchants. 
In this process of persecution and harassment, executed by the Public and Municipal Force, is where these regrettable facts of violence and abuses of power occur. 
Alberto Picuasi, like many street vendors was an honest worker who protected until the last his merchandise of being confiscated. 
His death should not be impuned, we ask the authorities of the Brother Country Celerity in the investigation for the clarification of the truth in this fact and demand justice for the death of our indigenous companion who was filed 7 years ago in Chile with his family that Today it is in total helplessness. 
Conaie communication  . 
