The expanded session of the Interfering Committee of the Achuar nationality of Ecuador-Nae, Nation Shuar del Ecuador-Nashe and the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar-FICSH Centers renewed the spirit of struggle and territorial defense of the Shuar People and Achuar de Morona Santiago on a day of Analysis and debate where not only the organizational problem of current times was discussed but, in a special manner, concrete proposals were issued by organizing strengthening for the benefit of the basic communities of the Committee. 
Agustín Wachapá, president of the Committee, departed from an analysis of the problem existing in Shuar and Achuar territory, to move towards propose concrete alternatives. 
"We live a difficult time for the organization, but Shuar and Achuar are a warrior people that we have always been able to overcome obstacles and stay firm in the defense of our territory. 
The application of our Regulations and Internal Statutes is the basis for overcoming our problems and making us strong, "he expressed as he moved several proposals that respond to the organizational partner reality that is currently experienced in Morona Santiago. 
During the plenary the attendees discussed the juncture where the current government has tried to divide organizations by entering their organizational policy. 
Given this, they raised a series of legal and organizational actions that are part of a roadmap and strategic agenda that will be broadcast opportunely by the leaders, after due debate at the level of the centers and associations of the three federations. 
Mobilization actions and demands to the Government for violation of rights, eviction, organizational division, political persecution, among others, are not discarded. 
With the presence of the CONAIE and before the illegitimate delivery of appointments to groups related to the regime, the only recognition of the Conféniae and Conaie Authority was raised to issue appointments, according to the legal and legitimate organizational structure that covers as originating nationalities. 
The day ended with the firm commitment to struggle that characterizes Shuar and Achuar and with a unity message released to the indigenous movement and the Ecuadorian people. 
Communication Confeniae  . 
