Press release  Puyo, August 13, 2015  Morona Santiago.  Massive was the influx of demonstrators of the Shuar nationalities and Achuar de Morona Santiago on the first day of the national unemployment. 
Since August 8, Bases of the Provincial Federations Nae, Nashe and FICSH are already mobilized from the interior of the Amazon rainforest in the Taisha canton, staying in constant vigil in the city of Macas, where they made several marches, Tomas of public buildings , Saplinters, rallies and planning meetings towards unemployment. 
This Thursday, August 13 from 24:00, the Nourished Concurrence made a march from the center of the city of Macas along the way to Puyo, to at the height of Santa Rosa, take the way that remains closed in these moments despite police custody. 
The duration of the measure is of an indeterminate nature in accordance with the call to an indefinite survey and unemployment by the Conaie. 
Women Achuar and Shuar form a safety cord that holds the action, while with its spears, men remain firm and launch slogans to express their rejection of government policies, demanding profound changes and background rectifications. 
Among the main demands that the Federations claim on this day of struggle, there is the resounding rejection of oil exploitation and mining in territories of the nationalities of the Amazonian southernity, in a special way the elexava round of oil tendering, as well as open-pit mining. In the Cordillera del Cóndor. 
Another demand is the requirement of the environmental license for the culmination of Via Macuma-Taisha, which was revoked to the Provincial Government of Morona Santiago in weeks passed by the Ministry of Environment, Morona Santiago direction. 
The Via Macas-Puyo is not the only one that day dawned blocked. 
The Cantones Logroño, San Juan Bosco and Gualaquiza, while the preparations are added to the extent. 
In the city of Macas, workers marched in the morning hours at the unemployment in the province. 
Pasteza.  For his part, Puyo, the road to Baños dawned closed from 02:00, at the height of the Bellavista sector. 
Fallen trees, stones and tires blocked vehicular traffic. 
This was the first action folding to the national unemployment, for 17:00 to concentrate the citizenship in a great march of the social sectors and community sectors that make it clear the pastry support to the national unemployment process. 
Another of the points he reported closure was the Bridge of the Pastaza River, at the limit with Morona Santiago. 
Approximately 150 delegates from the Kichwa nationalities of Sarayaku, Shuar and Waorani also joined the dignity upon arrival at Quito, where adorned with their traditional clothing, drums, Wituk, and others, made clear the support for the call From Conaie to the national unemployment, as well as the approaches around the non-oil exploitation in its territories. 
In the next few hours, the protesters will be added to the provincial actions planned. 
Zamora Chinchipe.  In the southern province, which began the great march for dignity, most of the bases remain in the city of Quito after the arrival of the walk to the capital on August 12. 
This day various acts are carried out and folds massively by the entire Ecuadorian people to the great national unemployment. 
Meanwhile other Zamoran delegations from different cantons locally prepare adhesion actions at unemployment, for the next few hours. 
Communication Confeniae  . 
