Press release  Puyo, August 8, 2015  The presidents and representatives of the Confénia, Conaie, Popular Front, Social Security Peasant, Chamber of Commerce of Pastaza, Agricultural Center, Former Fighters, Retirees, National Union of Educators, among others, summoned this morning to the Provincial Popular Assembly with the objective to ratify support for the mobilization days in the country and finalize the details towards uprising and national unemployment. 
Franco Viteri, president of Conféniae ratified the Conaie's call, workers and social sectors, started on August 2 in Tundayme and that accentuates on August 10 with the uprising to converge on August 13 at the Great National Town Stop . 
"You have to take strength and we should not be afraid. 
This is a call to the survey of the people's conscience and we are prepared to resist, "he said. 
Narcisa Sánchez, President of the Frentre Popular stressed the firm will of the organized sectors of pastry to be part of the historic mobilization day. 
Meanwhile, Ronny Sancho President of the Chamber of Commerce of Pastaza criticized the political practices of designation of charges on pastry by the Government. 
Katy Betancourt, leader of the woman of Conaie indicated that 2015 is a year of resistance and therefore there is a great unit between the indigenous movement, the workers, the students and is the street where the rights are defended and conquer. 
One of the central lawsuits of Pastaza and the Amazon, addressed at the meeting, has to do with extractivism and the tenth Oil Round, compared to which from the different guilds he expressed his rejection to it. 
Another topics felt by citizens has to do with the construction of the IESS hospital before the refusal of the central government to give way to this year of the province. 
The educational theme, the expendities of the teachers, the high cost of life and others are the arguments that the people defend. 
The Assembly hosted the national collective struggle platform and defined actions to underpin the fighting days that are coming. 
Commissions were formed to solidarity with the march of the south, the survey and the national unemployment. 
Finally, a majority, it was defined to actively join all the planned actions. 
Delegations of Sarayaku, Arajuno and Pasta Social Sectors are prepared to be an active part, for which they have already been installed in Permanente Provincial Popular Assembly. 
Conunicacion confeniae  . 
