After an inevitable and solidarity postponement after the events of the earthquake that hit our brothers from the Ecuadorian coast, it returns an indomitable Amazon in its sixth edition. 
From the Amazon region, the artistic-organizational proposal moves to Quito, capital of Ecuadorians for the first time. 
Indomitable Amazon Free people singing! Acquires a special transcendence since it will be held on August 13, precisely one year of the indigenous survey and national unemployment of the 2015 people at the country, recalling the historical struggle of workers, students, nationalities and organized social sectors That in this day he raised his protest voice and that today face judicial processes. 
Now his cases passed nationally after the unfair sentence in the provinces. 
Since 9am, the square of the emblematic Teatro Sucre, in the city of Quito, will bring together artists from musical, theatrical, dancers, painters along with leaders of popular organizations from several corners of the country, raising a cry of solidarity, for freedom Of the 120 processes of the 2015 national arrest, demanding a true justice for our colleagues. 
The event is framed within the National Campaign # resistance in the face of the criminalization of the Social Protest in Ecuador. 
The special participation of criminalized for fighting from all over the country such as the # 7pasteza, # 29Deagree, among others, will enhance the event and configure a meeting and solidarity scenario. 
In 2016, the Amazonian Commune forms a fraternal alliance with the Confederation Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador Conaie, artists, public and private entities, a worker people. 
Indomable Amazon assumes this new challenge with joy, decision and consequence because fighting is not a crime. 
With its dynamic format and an innovative artistic proposal, this time we bring samples from our Amazon culture, reinforced with national references of our Ecuador!  He supports with your solidarity message this Saturday, August 13 at an appointment for children, young people and adults without limit of age by a free, indomitable Amazon and by an Ecuador without criminalization of social protest. 
More information on our official channels  Indomitable Amazon.  COMMUNICATION CONFENIAE.  Conaie communication  Twitter: @ CONFENIAE1 - @ResistaRequo - @Conaie_Ecuador  . 
