The Governing Council of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conféniae-Through Press Conference announced the morning of this Thursday, August 17, 2017, on the mobilization that the bases of the Amazon will carry out the appointment of the legitimate presidade directive By Marlon Vargas, this after the meeting that Conaie sustained on Wednesday, August 16, with several government institutions. 
According to Jorge Herrera, president of CONAIE, he said that the meeting, which was called work, served to prepare a schedule of meetings that allow compliance with the approaches held on the last 4th of July before Lenín Moreno, president of Ecuador. 
For this reason, this Monday, August 21, the National Secretary of Management of Politics-SNGP, chaired by Paola Pabón, will maintain a meeting with the Directive and representatives of the nationalities of the Amazon region in order to give for resolute the subject of the Appointment, according to a statement issued by the Regional Organization of the Ecuadorian Amazon. 
With this reason, the bases and presidents of the nationalities will be transferred to the capital of the Ecuadorians to definitively demand legal recognition and remain in Quito until they achieve their goal, announced the statement. 
Because, they add, the current leadership, at the front Marlon Vargas, has the majority backrest of the bases. 
They claim that "SNGP can not interfere with decisions taken by nationalities within the framework of its internal assemblies processes." 
The Conféniae reported on the progress that exists in the process of dialogue that maintains the indigenous movement with the national government, this after the meeting sustained with several ministries in the city of Quito. 
They added that there is a work agenda. 
With the Water Secretariat, Senagua, and Ministry of the Environment will meet the Amazon Organization on August 29, 2017 in its location located in Base Union, Puyo. 
With the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock it will do it on August 4 in the city of Quito. 
They invited the nationalities, bases, authorities, leaders and media to be accompanied on Monday, August 21, at 09:00 at the SNGP, located on Venezuela and Sucre Street, historical center. 
. 
