Press release  Tundayme, Zamora Chinchipe, August 2, 2015. 
From early hours on Sunday, August 2, it started the great march of the town from the Tundayme parish, Province of Zamora Chinchipe. 
During the first hours of the route, attempts to prevent our free mobility were evident. 
Thus, the police control on the bridge of the Chuchumbletza River prevented the passage of three buses and two vans. 
This harassment action caused the immediate popular reaction, taking as measured the closure of the Amazonian trunk at the height of the canton Pangui, for approximately 2 hours, demanding respect for the right to free mobility and against the abuse of Zamorano Chinchipense. 
The walk home with a purification ceremony on the banks of Rio Kiim, where delegations from all over the country were quoted to join the local population that is directed towards Quito to claim its demands around the protection of the Cordillera del Cóndor before The mega mining. 
The leaders of CONEIE, ECUARUNARI, CONFENIAE, FUT, Popular Front, Assembly of South Peoples, as well as leaders from all over the country, raised the slogans of the march, mainly the requirement of the platform for the fight for uprising and national unemployment from town. 
As a central point, the rejection of large-scale mining and especially the ECSA China company is positioned in the fighting agenda of the demonstrative organizations. 
During the closing of the road, an open tribune was installed, where Jorge Herrera, president of CONAIE announced the arguments of the march, as well as the survey and national unemployment. 
"The uprising is a legitimate right to demand compliance with the demands of the people, and for this the unity of all social sectors is fundamental," he said. 
The march progresses towards the capital Zamora and will continue tomorrow towards Loja. 
Throughout its journey, popular acceptance is evident and more delegations of organizations and citizenship are added in general. 
Solidarity with the legitimate struggle of the people!  Respect for our right to free mobility!  Live the survey and national unemployment of the town!  Conaie communication  . 
