Delegations from different organizations in the country that make up the Conaie reached the headquarters of the indigenous and peasant-MICC movement for the Extraordinary Assembly that took place yesterday, Tuesday, January 31, in the city of Latacunga, Cotopaxi. 
This event began with an act of ceremony on behalf of the partners of the Nankints conflict area, who attended the event convened by the indigenous organization of Ecuador. 
Several leaders of the Sierra, Costa and Amazon accompanied the ritual act. 
Leonidas Iza Salazar, president of MICC, host of the event welcomed all delegations. 
Jorge Herrera, president of CONAIE, made a brief contextualization of the effects of large-scale mining exploitation, and recalled that extractivism will not solve the economic crisis through which the country is going through. 
As one of the consequences, he said, is the criminalization and judicialization to leaders who oppose mining exploitation. 
Marlon Vargas, president of Conféniae, was emphatic in the need to fight and defend the territories. 
He rejected the persecution that exists against the leaders. 
Carmen Lozano, leader of ECUARUNARI women, was part of the initial ceremony in support of Amazonian women. 
Lorenzo Añapa, Vice President Conaice said that on the coast there is also problems for pollution to rivers and that is why it is a priority fighting in a united way. 
In the interventions of provincial organizations, solidarity with Shuar nationality and rejection of action carried out by the national government. 
At the end of the Assembly, they went to the Prison of Maximum Security to express Solidarity with Agustín Wachapá, President of FICSH, arrested on December 21, 2016. 
They tried to contact Wachapá but they could not do it. 
We share communication issued by communication Conféniae. 
With Solidarity School by Political Prisoners culminated Extraordinary Assembly of Conaie  Latacunga, January 31, 2017  A representative assistance from the Amazon, Costa and Sierra was given today at the headquarters of the indigenous movement of Cotopaxi MicC to carry out the Extraordinary Assembly of the Conaie. 
In the outskirts of the Maximum Safety Prison of Latacunga and after defining several resolutions by the strengthening of the Indigena Fighting Agenda and its bases, a hundred representatives of the peoples and nationalities expressed their rejection of the criminalization policy of the Fight and solidarized with Agustìn Wachapá President of the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar FICSH Centers, political prisoner of the email. 
Delegates of Conféniae and its six Amazonian provinces attended the call, together with the bases of ECUARUNARI and CONAICE, analyzing the current organizational political situation and the upcoming strategies for the abuse of the duty regime against social organizations and fighters. 
Solidarity with the Shuar people was manifested before the Shuar women's stories of #Nankints on the Gravisima situation that families face in the territory after the statement of exception in Morona Santiago and its subsequent expansion. 
Planton-A-A  Planton-A  Planton-J-A  . 
