Audiences at the IACHR, Washington - United States  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE), the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon (Confedery) / Terramater, the Human Rights Center of the Pontifical Catholic University of Ecuador (PUCE) and the Regional Foundation of Human Rights Advisory (Inredh) With the support of the Ecumenical Human Rights Commission (CEDhu) invite society and the media to live broadcasting public hearings on Ecuador to be developed in the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR), WASHINGTO - USA, next Monday, April 4, within the framework of the session 157 of the Commission, from 08:00 to 10:45, Ecuador Time. 
One, is the thematic audience [1] on violations of the freedom of association of the indigenous peoples and nationalities of Ecuador and two, the Fund Audience [2] on the forced disappearance of Luis Eduardo Guachala that was disappeared on January 17 In 2004, when I was admitted to a psychiatric hospital Julio Endara, in the city of Quito. 
Freedom of association has been violated by the Government of Ecuador by fractioning organizations, provoking internal conflicts, promoting the designation of directives related to the regime, denying the inscriptions of legitimately elected directives by the communities themselves and create parallel organizations. 
As for the Guachalá case, the knowledge of this case in the IACHR will also serve to make visible the situation of missing persons in Ecuador, the situation of their relatives, who must insist for long years so that some authority is concerned about investigating what is what What happened with the missing people. 
We invite you to accompany ourselves on a day of solidarity in which we can look at the development of these two audiences with the Hashtag #resistasMidrecho and #Cidhaudacias. 
In addition, several specialists will perform an analysis at the conclusion of each session. 
At the thematic audience of the freedom of association of indigenous peoples and nationalities will intervene:  Jorge Herrera, president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador. 
Franco Viteri, president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon (Conféde). 
Wilson Ordoñez, Conaie's lawyer  Manari Ushigua, President of Zápara Nationality  At the background audience of the forced disappearance of Luis Eduardo Guachalá will intervene:  Zoila Chimbo, mother of Luis Eduardo disappeared on January 17, 2004. 
David Cordero, lawyer of the Regional Human Rights Advisory Foundation (INREDH). 
Mario Melo, Lawyer Human Rights Center of the Pontifical Catholic University of Ecuador (PUCE). 
The live broadcast of audiences  Place: main lounge of the Conaie (Av. 
Of Granados E 10 - 275 and December 6)  Schedule:  Audience 1: Freedom of association  Audience 2: Enforced disappearance  8:00: Audience on freedom of association - live transmission (third floor)  . 
