Drafting: Sthefania Güingla  The morning of this Monday March 21 of the current year, in the Florida building in the city of Loja, a press conference was carried out on the 29 processed of Saraguro, where they spoke before the prohibition of the State within actions of resistance that the peoples, nationalities and the Ecuadorian people exercise under constitutional right. 
Once the press conference was finished, they proceeded to the court hearing at 10 of the 29 processed, however, they were summoned in the Florida building and last time changed the place of reception, which was held at the Manuel Carrión Auditorium Pinzano of the Council of the Judiciary belonging to the province of Loja. 
At nine o'clock in the morning, he entered the Tribunal of Criminal Guarantees de Loja, 10 of the 29 processed, witnesses and lawyers of the processed, initially did not allow them to enter more people, however, people claimed their right, then the judge He allowed to enter Veedores until they declared a reserved hearing. 
After the court audience, a half hour recess was given a half hour until seeking a Kichwa interpreter, then the trial was resumed, which was again suspended until Monday, next Monday, because it had not been found translator. 
In the lapse of the 30 minutes of time of the first suspension, the Saragurnian people, Loja and others went to the central streets of the city to march asking for justice and freedom for the processes of Saraguro and all the provinces that are judged. 
This is one of the slogan that shouted through the manifestation "respect indigenous justice, resist is my right." 
After the demonstration, the ceremony of Pawkar Raymi, Mushuk Nina was held, which is celebrated every March 21 at the beginning of the New Year on the Andean calendar. 
During the day, solidarity was clearly noticed, popular support. 
Jorge Herrera, President of Conaie was present; Katy Betancourt, Women Conaie; Patricio Meza, criminalized from pastry and other local, regional representations who demonstrated act of gratitude with the 29 of Saraguro. 
Data:  -The audience will resume on March 28 at 8 o'clock in the morning at the Manuel Carrión de Loja auditorium. 
-The # 29Desaraguro are accused of paralysis of public service, Article 346 of the Criminal Code. 
This crime can have a sentence from 1 to 3 years in prison. 
-An expert will analyze the judgment issued by indigenous justice, it was another of the reasons why the audience was suspended  . 
