Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, August 15, 2018  The indigenous nationalities and peoples of Ecuador were concentrated on July 6 in the city of Latacunga, which was signed the creation of the Secretariat of the Bilingual Intercultural Education System. 
The CONAE in compliance with the decree appointed the authorities of each of the instances: Secretary, Undersecretary and members of the Transitory Advisory Commission. 
The CONAIE on this route for the restitution of collective rights in the field of comprehensive education has been able to interact at a territorial level as a permanent mechanism of feedback and validation of the proposal that will be reflected in the normative, technical and political instruments that are required For the full exercise of self-education. 
Decree 445, issued on July 6, is one of the normative instruments that allow the transition from an Undersecretary to a secretary with extensive attributions to activate transformation and institutional innovation of bilingual education based on the principles and rights reached by the historic Dineib And enhancing it at all educational levels. 
This executive decree initiates the process of implementing the agreements of the Conaie Education Bureau, both in the field of functional organic structure, in the educational model, and in legal reforms to comply with the agreements. 
The representatives are: Jaime Gayas, National Secretary; Wilson Añapa Chapiro, Undersecretary. 
The signing of the Decree is one of the results within the process of dialogue that Conaie maintains with the Government. 
While, it is an achievement (although minimal) does not rule out and does not limit our position of struggle in defense of our territories and our fighting agenda for the benefit of the community, as well as of Ecuadorian society. 
The place of this act is August 15 in the lobby and auditorium of the Ministry of Education (Amazon and Atahualpa) at 2:30 p.m. 
By the Governing Council    Jaime Vargas.  President Conaie.  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
