The Confederation of the Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, chaired by Jorge Herrera, carried out an extraordinary assembly at the headquarters with the basic organizations to deal with the Government and Internal Case Plan in the Pachakutik Theme. 
During the event there was a deep reflection on the historical principles of the indigenous movement, which must be, to say by Jorge Herrera, the guiding elements in the construction of the plan. 
For this reason, the debates will be continued at the provinces to have a solid proposal, which will be presented at the Congress of the Pachakutik Plurinational Unit Movement to be held in the city of Guayaquil on April 16 of this year. 
On the Pachakutik case, the Congress date was ratified. 
The and the leaders of provincial organizations requested that the appointment of the National Electoral Commission of the Political Arm be made under the parameter of the current organic regime, more not the reformed. 
Therefore, several leaders and leaders recalled that during the political council of February 13, the reform was unknown to the organic regime, because Congress is the only space where the modifications made to the scheme can be appropriate. 
In addition, they indicated that this reform can not be used for the execution of Congress because there is a challenge on the part of the Conaie in force. 
Therefore, the allocation of the National Electoral Council must be covered in the current, ratified. 
Franco Viteri, president of Confénia, motivated that the discussions and debates at the regional level should be continued to consolidate the proposals. 
Carlos Pérez G. 
, President of ECUARUNARI, challenged the way the approval of the reform was given to the Pachakutik regime within the National Electoral Council. 
At 5:00 pm, the event was terminated. 
Jorge Herrera, head of Conaie, closed the appointment, making a call to continue firmly and strength with work under the historical guidelines from the basic organizations. 
. 
