The National Legislative Assembly will begin today the debate of the Organic Law of Rural Lands and Ancestral Territories, based on the majority report presented by Miguel Carvajal, President of the Food Sovereign Commission. 
With this, the National Assembly runs over the rights of thousands of indigenous people, peasants and citizens who participated in the construction of the Land and Territory Law Proposal developed by the COPISA, of the more than 40. 
000 people who signed supporting the presentation of this proposal by citizen initiative [1], and the agreements reached by the different indigenous, peasant and rural sectors, including the Conaie, on the content that the law should include to advance in a true revolution Agrarian, flagrant debt of this government. 
In addition to not proceeding in compliance with the Citizen Initiative Law, by which the National Assembly was obliged to discuss the peasant proposal in a maximum period of 180 days, EL CAL committed illegality by authorizing the Commission of Food Sovereignty [ 2] Finalized 5 bills presented by different assemblyers, diluting the expression of peasant and indigenous popular participation between the proposals of business chambers, and denying the special treatment that corresponds by law. 
Although the prior consultation is a right of the peoples and nationalities recognized by international law and the constitution that the State and the authorities must fully comply, it should not be politically maneuente only to legitimize an imposition of an uncompressed bill or cooked With the peoples and nations and society in general. 
The Carvajal project, very despite the discourse that positions in the media, protects the great monopoly property of the Earth, does not sanction the latifundio or the violation of the social and environmental function of the land, and strengthens a vertical agricultural institutionality that maintains Al Magap, historically dumping to export agribusiness, in the center of decisions. 
Conaie together with peasant, agroecological and rural workers organizations, we demand a law that establishes a limit to the latifundio and promotes an equitable distribution of land for the peasants who produce for the Ecuadorian people holding food sovereignty, which forces the fulfillment of the social rights and nature through the concrete sanction to the violations of social and environmental function, which guarantees the integrity of the ancestral territories, and that it concretes an agricultural institutionality of intercultural and plurinational, participatory and democratic nature for the fulfillment of Food sovereignty. 
Therefore, we demand that the debate continue on the Land and Territory Law project presented by a citizen initiative, with the inclusion of the agreements and proposals of the set of peasant, indigenous, agroecological and rural organizations, which will ensure that the only way that will ensure that The Land and Territory Law contributes to national food sovereignty, to the democratization of land and respect for collective rights. 
[1] Presented in 2012 by the Fraternal Organizations of the Agricultural Network. 
[2] By resolution Cal-2013-2015-129 of July 31, 2013. 
. 
