Press release  Quito, April 16, 2015  In reference to the meeting promoted by Pachakutik along with political sectors on the right (I believe, PSP and free country movement) with the aim of reaching agreements on popular consultation, the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador - CONAIE, expresses emphatically the following:  Conaie ratifies unity with popular social sectors of the field and the city; peasants, workers, unions, students, teachers, doctors, cholos, Montubios / ace, Afro Ecuadoros, Mestizos, the most impoverished of this country with whom by History work is jointly To reject the policies of domination, submission, oppression of the right and of the shift governments. 
As for as responsible for the continuity of the historical struggle, of the political and ideological project that left our Titas and Mamas, we do not match, nor do we doubt our positioning at this juncture. 
In such virtue, CONAIE rejects this fact and requires the National Directorate of Pachakutik to be consistent with the political and ideological principles with which they were created and consequently to immediately abandon such a pretension. 
We point out that the organizational bases have not authorized or guaranteed any kind of contact, dialogue, or agreement with any right-wing match. 
It is clear that the Political Project of the CONAIE enters frank contradiction with the interests of the oligarchy, the commercial and financial bourgeoisie, represented by the right parties. 
Therefore, being constituted in class enemies of our proposal of a plurinational and intercultural and community society. 
Transforming Ecuador and defeating the capitalist modernizing project of the correity requires the unity of the sectors excluded and exploited in its ability to fight for the defense of economic, social and collective rights. 
We will do it with our own strength, without lending us on opportunism or being a staircase of the dominant classes. 
We can not endorse actions that at the rate of conjunctural pragmatism put our political-ideological principles, the symbology and identification of the indigenous movement that struggles for life, social equality and plurinationality. 
We owe only to the organic mandates and agreements of our bases and respect that which have clearly expressed in the resolutions of the V Congress in Ambate "the affirmation of the principle of political independence and autonomy, and the guidance of building the social alliance with organizations of the Popular field ". 
. 
