Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, August 17, 2015  We denounce and reject the brutal police and military operative conducted against the Saraguro (Loja) people on Monday, August 17, in which approaching approximately 30 people and there are several injuries. 
In addition, we repudiate the incursion into community territories and the raid of housing. 
According to testimonies of the companions and colleagues, the police and military entered the houses of the families to take leaders, young people and women and take them arrested. 
These arrests are arbitrary since several of the detainees were taken out of their homes and they were not committing any crime. 
In this operation there are several wounded, we especially denounce violence against women who narrate that they were beaten, dragged and drawn their traditional clothes violently. 
We remind the public authorities that the use of military force to evict demonstrators who are exercising their right to expression and resistance is unconstitutional and is expressed internationally. 
To the extent that the state of emergency has to do with the Cotopaxi volcano, the inviolability of the address is a right that has no justification to be violated in territories such as Saraguro. 
We take responsibility for the State for the consequences of its violent actions that contravene the Constitution and the Exception Decree who expressly indicates it has a uniquely and exclusively related to Cotopaxi and non-resistance actions and citizenship mobilized in Ecuador. 
Sign  Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie  Regional Foundation for Human Rights Advice, Inredh  Ecumenical Commission on Human Rights, Cedhu  We share several testimonies from the relatives of the assaults and detainees, who narrate what happened:  Testimony Luis M. 
, Saraguro, Loja, Community Saint Vincent  "Military and police commanded by the government approached the house of my father where my 76-year-old mother was, my 66-year-old dad where they were mistreated, especially my dad. 
In the same house as my father was the grandson, that is, my 19-year-old nephew, where he stopped as if something he owes him to the strap (...) I call my brother, Manuel M. 
, which is the detainee's dad called Digmer M. 
Enter the military to the house they give a beating to my dad and my mom and take my nephew detained and we do not know where it is, we do not have information about him "  Testimony Darwin J. 
"Approximately 2 hours ago in Saraguro, more or less in the sector of Saint Vincent where a measure of Saraguro was carried out in peacefully, brutal repression was given by public force, without respecting elderly, women and children They were in the sector. 
The most worrisome is that the Public Force, Military and Police, entered Community Territories of Lagunas, Ilincho and Gunudel where they entered the houses and rooms mistreating without compassion to the people who were in the house that had not even went to mobilization and taking prisoners to many of them, they took handcuffs and there is no information
In the same way in the center of Saraguro, there is a brutal attack on the population even attempting against private property where tear pumps that are fed from a helicopter overflowing the city "
It is known that there are 31 people arrested in Loja
List of detainees in Saraguro, Loja, identified so far:
Detainees
1 Nestor Macas.
2 Digmer Patricio Medina
3 Pedro Ordoñez.
4 Vinicio Andrade Shingre
Detainees
5 Light Angelica Sarango
6 Rosa Cango.
7 Luisa Lozano.
8 Sisa Lozano.
9 Teresa Cango.
10 Laura Albertina Lozano happy
11 Luz Tene.
12 Tania Minga.
13 Karina Monteros.
14 Balvina Macas, sister of Luis Macas, and you do not know where she is. 
Wounded  Vicente Guamán, and several more. 
Photos: @ Carneseman  . 
