The Chinese mining camp of the Río Blanco project located in the Molleturo Parish of the Province of Azuay suffered fire from repression exercised by the security of the transnational company and the national police on the night of May 8, 2018. 
Jaime Vargas, president of CONAIE, along with two more leaders; ECUARUNARI and FOA arrived on May 10 to the Community Río Blanco, Molleturo Parroquia in which the population began actions in fact peaceful in rejection of the presence of the Chinese mining transnational company JUNEFIELD Resources Ecuador S. 
A. 
, Ecuagoldmining. 
Inhabitants of the community reported that the security of the company, as well as the National Police, at the beginning launched lacrimogenic pumps to girls, women and men who manifested peacefully in the area. 
The tear pump launched by security and police impacted in a chemical material, which caused the fire. 
The repeated attack by security and police with tear pumps and molotov bombs against peaceful protesters caused the fire to spread along the camp, thus causeing material damage. 
Jaime Vargas, president of CONAIE, affirmed that it is "defending what is ours, our property, our territories who left us our grandparents." 
"They are not alone, if we have to move nationally, we will set ourselves," said Jaime Vargas during the visit to the Río Blanco community. 
The comuneros indicated that they will keep this measure in fact until the Chinese company comes out of territories since its operations are being causing environmental damage in the mollon parish. 
In the midst of the discordencies of the community and the activity of the company, the police and the armed forces have also been called, so they said that "the violence exercised by the public force against the comuneros is a sample of violation of the Collective and nature rights ". 
During the Assembly maintained by national, regional and local leaders with comunos of Río Blanco, Molleturo, they escorted the departure to the camp approximately 35 military and 50 policemen permanently. 
While two military vehicles hung between round trip as well as the camp. 
The Conaie, Ecuarunari and FOA will carry out actions of support for the struggle of the People of the Río Blanco, Molleturo community. 
Conaie Communication / Apawki Castro  . 
