We share Press Bulletin issued by Campesinxs by Maizales Maracumbo that demand award from their legitimate lands. 
Peasants of Maizales Maracumbo will demand the Magap the award of land  Will the Government fulfill its promise to guarantee the right to land?  #Cumplemagap #firmamae.  On March 29, the peasants stripped of their lands by the Botartos company in the forest of El PamBilar, Esmeraldas, will demand against the Magap the adjudication of the properties, after 27 years of struggle. 
In the year 98, the peasants of Maizales Maracumbo were stripped with violence of land on the site. 
Thus the company appropriated thousands of hectares of emerald forests for the sale of wood, and evicted hundreds of families, burning their homes, destroying their crops and administering the communities. 
For decades, Botartosa established a liberated territory in this area, administering peasant families, who never stopped demanding the return of their lands. 
"In our attempts to recover the land we have suffered murders, violations, torture, disappearances ... the terror of fighting the powerful capitals of this country. 
They tried to bribe ourselves, and our leaders were prisoners several times declared invaders. 
Our people have lost their lives in this fight, like José Aguilar, who was killed for denouncing the company "- expressed one of the affected peasants. 
"However we do not get our arms, because that land belongs to us. 
We are 300 organized families. " 
A legal process before the Constitutional Court showed that the Earth should not be awarded to Botartos, and in 2009 the terrain of the pambery passed by the Ministry of the Environment [Mae]. 
However, they were not delivered to the peasants. 
"Therefore, 4 years ago, the Minister of Agriculture motivated us to carry out legal procedures to demand the award of these lands, and thus resuscate the years of poverty who suffered our landless families. 
He assured us that now those lands are not from the company, but of the State and is the one who must return to the peasants which belongs to us. " 
After an action on January 15 at the Magap, Legally the families of Maizales Maracumbo have fulfilled all the requirements to access the land again. 
Therefore, we demand that the procedures are accelerated and that this is this Government, who makes the award, to restore the land stolen to the peasants. 
"That has been the commitment assumed by the Government, so we come to Quito to demand that they comply with this promise and respect what the Land Law points out, that small producers have the right to land and that the latifundio is prohibited." 
We summon civil society to accompany the seedlock to be held on Wednesday, March 29, from 9:00 pm in the Magap and knowing our struggle, which today, after 27 years, can reach a solution with a simple government response: sign The adjudication to give us what belongs to us. 
The press is cordially invited to receive statements from 10 HS30. 
#Cumplemagap #firmamae #devuelvanlatierrabeada #loprometric  . 
