Taken from Wambra Radio  Drafting: Robin Steudt @ ro2bat  Edition: Veronica Calvopiña @Kinoraxx  For 13 days, indigenous and social organizations around the country walked from Tundayme until I take "the march for life and dignity". 
The reasons for this lifting were the closure of bilingual education schools, land law, decree 16, in defense of IESS, free admission to the university, among other reasons. 
Rising-Tunguragua-Salasaka  Rising-Tunguragua-Ambato  Lifting-Amazon.  Lifting-solidarity  Rising-Saraguro.  - Look at the chronology of the uprising in:  http: // www. 
Cell. 
org/index. 
phpoption = com_content & view = article & id = 356 & itemid = 50  The indigenous march was concentrated for a week in camp in the park of El Tranquito in Quito, where the solidarity of the city became present through the delivery of food and victuals for the dealers. 
Watch videos:  During the August national unemployment, social mobilizations were numerous in several cities and communities in the country, but they were also strongly repressed. 
The emergency decree signed on August 16, as a result of the eruptive process of the Cotopaxi Volcano, allowed military and police to enter the communities, paving housing where several people stuck especially in Saraguro and Puyo. 
The number of detainees recorded by Conaie since Thursday, August 13 was about 151 people. 
PhotoReporta:  http: // www. 
a mutharadio. 
COM / STOP-STOP-NATIONAL-13-August-QUITO /  Analysis of unemployment: Alejandro Moreano. 
The unemployment of August 13: Build a third force  http: // www. 
a mutharadio. 
COM / EL-SPARO-DEL-13-DE-AUGUSTO-CONSUBE-A-THIRD-FORCE /  Criminalization and repression  The last months of the year were months of criminalization to social protest. 
Several people at different parts of the country passed by detainees, with judgments and with charges for alleged crimes ranging from rebellion and resistance to authority. 
Among the most emblematic cases was the arrest of 26 people in Saraguro, the same ones that passed 15 days detained, under the crime of obstruction of a public service. 
In Puyo instead, 16 people stopped, including a young Colombian nationality who passed by about two months along with another 5 others. 
The Environmental Activist Margoth Escobar was also stopped, who was hit hard during his capture. 
His case, and that of other persons was presented to the International Commission on Human Rights, IACHR. 
Margoth Escobar and the spirits of the jungle: http: // www. 
planv. 
with. 
EC / Stories / Politics / Margoth-Escobar-y-Spiritus-La-Jungle  In these two cities, artistic festivals were held to raise funds for detainees, so that they could cover medical costs due to injuries caused by police repression, and to solve the costs of their legal defense. 
Meanwhile, mobilizations continued the months following uprising and national unemployment. 
For the "national unitary collective of workers, indigenous and social organizations", the mobilizations were not only for the constitutional amendments but also by other policies taken from the State. 
Paquetail of amendments  Photo: @conaie_ecuador.  On December 3, the National Assembly approved in the midst of popular discontent, the package of 13 amendments to the Constitution. 
These changes were allowed the arruption of the army in complementary security activities, it became public service communication, the right to popular consultation was limited, among other changes. 
This approval summoned several social sectors to manifest the surroundings of the Assembly. 
Even though the demonstrations were peaceful, a large police contingent tried to evict the park of El Abolaito, after the approval of the amendments. 
Lacterogenic pumps, dogs, horses, antitines and special anti-tisturban bodies were used. 
Fruit of repression stopped 21 people. 
Between shots and horses: my testimony about the police repression of December 3 by David Revel  http: // www. 
a mutharadio. 
COM / Entre-Shooting-and-Horses-Mi-Testimony-over-the-repression-police-Del-De-December /  After 15 days in prison, the detainees left paying high fines, which were solved with solidarity, through public collections, carried out by the families of the detainees. 
Look: Solidarity Collection by LXS 21 of the Tree  Read also:  Manifesto of relatives of the 21st of the Tree  https: // conaie. 
Organ / Demonstration-of-Family-of-Los-21-of-Tree /  Solidarity collection pays 21 of the tree  http: // www. 
a mutharadio. 
COM / Collect-Solidaria-Paga-fine-of-21-del-tree /  . 
