The Confederation of the Kichwa Nationality of Ecuador, Ecuarunari, made its V Congress in the Ancestral Community La Toglla, Province of Pichincha, on May 13 and 14 with the participation of 664 official delegates and delegates of the peoples. 
On the 13th, the opening was held after an ancestral ceremony chaired by Taytas and Mamas from different peoples, and then a work tables were formed to analyze issues on the role of indigenous justice, the plurinational State, bilingual intercultural education, the project Politician of the indigenous movement, the agricultural situation in the country and others. 
Jorge Herrera, president of CONAIE, in his speech called on the unity of peoples and to give continuity the political project of the indigenous movement. 
On Saturday, the plenary was made of the subjects analyzed. 
At approximately 15h00 the electoral court was initiated to make the election of the new Governing Council. 
Luis Macas was the president of the court. 
They were candidates Carlos Pérez Gortambel and Medardo Chimbolema. 
Due to the absence of consensus, the election was performed by secret vote. 
The results were in favor of Carlos Pérez with 364 votes, against 254 of Medardo Chimbolema. 
The total number of suffering was 618 of the 1352 summoned. 
Carlo Pérez During his speech he pointed out that his main bet is the radicalization of resistance. 
In the vice presidency, he will accompany him white chancosa of the Village Otavalo, Imbabura. 
The other dignities was formed as follows:  • Francisco Guamán- Zamamaskijat, Zamora Chinchipe, leadership of organizational strengthening. 
• Cristina Cucuri-People Puruway, Chimborazo, a leadership of Natural Resources and Territory. 
• Mentor Sánchez-Pichincha, education leader, science, culture and research. 
• Carmen Lozano-Loja, direction of the woman and family. 
• Patricio Zhingo, Kañari, Azuay, communication leader. 
• Sisa Contento- Village Saraguro, Corpukis, Loja, Young Leadiness  • Yaku Samay-Village Kañari, Azuay, Health and Nutrition Leader  • Jaime Paucar-People Kitu Kara-La Toglla, Pichincha, international relations leadership. 
At approximately at 22:30, the V Congress of ECUARUNARI was closed. 
With Ecuachaski data  . 
