We undoubtedly cross a fairly complex and difficult political situation that alters the actions of all political actors, especially from the popular organized sectors. 
We know that in such circumstances individual and collective spirits can be altered so much that the differences in criteria cease to be a cause for discussion and become reasons of conflicts, thus making all decisions that organizations can take; But, however, what is responsible to ask ourselves if the severity of a crisis is questioned the philosophical and political principles of an organization and processes?, If the urgency to combat the enemy is it enough reason to deny our own story?. 
We are in the middle of a huge global crisis product of the hegemonic disputes between the old and new powers. 
But, thanks to this tough situation Latin America lived a brief moment of economic bonanza product of the high prices of natural resources, mainly oil and mining. 
In some of the countries of the region, including Ecuador, it was administered by self-continued progressive governments, which taking advantage of this good conjuncture, modernized economic models, reformed state-owned legal structures and generated some redistribution of income in society; All this seasoned with great speeches of change and socialism, which created the illusion of revolution. 
But once that "new Bomm" oil is completed, the crisis drags our countries showing their true consequences: a state and authoritarian government, the enrichment of old oligarchies (bankers and agroindustrial), the emergence of new power groups and a New impoverishment of middle classes, but above all of the popular sectors. 
This is the scenario where we must act and make decisions. 
For social organizations, and in a particular way for indigenous movement, which in addition to responding to this hard crisis, we have also had to face in these last ten years an aggressive and systematic policy of criminalization of the Social Protest implemented by the Alliance Government Country led by President Rafael Correa, with which leaders were cooperated, divided organizations, was annulled by laws and decrees, any possibility of autonomous participation in the national political system, is judicially pursued to militants and social leaders, only from the CONAIE we have About 230 between processed and sentenced. 
Acting in a crisis situation and in a condition of disadvantage it necessarily requires evaluation processes and political-strategic rethinking, but at no time does that mean renunciations or setbacks, even less claudications. 
The question we have to solve is how to respond from our collective expression status of communes, peoples and nationalities, as well as the majorities of impoverished by neoliberalism and the current capitalist modernization, to the new situation and demands of the current reality ?  We are a few days after thirty years of the emergence of Conaie. 
Yes, times have changed, but in these years our proposal of plurinationality instead of exhausting has been reinforced by the push that democracy has had thanks to our struggles and proposals. 
Plurinationality is not a table where they feel exploited and operators, oppressors and oppressed to take the photo. 
For us it is a political project that seeks to build a democratic and plural state, this is only possible on the basis of the elimination of structures of economic, political, social and cultural inequalities, and the generation of the self-government of peoples. 
These are our objectives and our historical vision and that is why we fight and defend the rights of the sectors exploited and oppressed, of the communes, peoples and nationalities: this is the mandate of the CONAIE since its birth in 1986 and from the days of the first uprising Indian 1990 indigenous. 
Within this process, the Pachakutik Plurinational Unit Movement arises as a political-electoral proposal that allows a wide alliance of the organized sectors of the field towards cities, which allows local and national powers through the citizen and national powers and deepen the fight . 
In this way we have had progress, setbacks and contradictions, which we must evaluate, recognize the errors and enhance the successes, because the citizen support received at the polls requires us to be responsible. 
Faced with the current conjuncture of economic crisis is the more we have to defend collective actions and unity. 
The proposals and alliances that we should work should allow us to advance in our historical process: the possibility of an electoral victory should be an advance in our objectives to transform the structures of injustice and oppression. 
Defeating the current opprobious and violent regime that governs us should not imply at any time claudications or before the old forces of the right or before the current ones, no matter how it shows themselves with faces. 
In this difficult electoral conjuncture is the more we must defend the internal unity of our organizations and processes. 
At the level of the Conaie as of the Pachakutik movement itself, collective orientations have been taken in Assemblies, Expanded Councils and Political Councils, all oriented to build an anti-crisis proposal, other than the extractivist and authoritarian model of the mail and neoliberalism, and strengthen an alternative Electoral based on the political and social unit of the center to the left. 
Consensus in a fundamental component of multiority, this principle allows our existence and our development. 
As Conaie we will defend collective decisions and consensus to strengthen unity. 
Today, when we have been attacked and persecuted with unusual violence, when the economic crisis affects most Ecuadorians is the more we must defend unity and consensus. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera Morocho  President of the Conaie  Document on PDF.  . 
