The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador - Conaie, the Unitary Front of Workers - Fut and the Popular Front - FP, we headed to you to expose the following:  In October 2019, the popular indigenous uprising was developed that forced the Government of the LCDO. 
Lenin Moreno to repeal Decree 883, with which it was intended to liberalize the prices of fuels and raise the prices of passenger transport passages at all levels as well as cargo transport. 
This legitimate reaction of indigenous peoples, workers and most of the popular sectors of Ecuador, is explained because the impact of them in the limited popular economy was unsustainable, given the high and growing indices of poverty, extreme poverty, unemployment and underemployment that prevails in our country. 
As is known, in the Latin American region, our countries have the highest rates of economic and social inequality throughout the world and, in most cases, the ruling elites do this reality and intend to impose policies and measures Economic with the racer of the most powerful circles and in its direct benefit, also shielded in the programs agreed upon with the International Monetary Fund, to access new sources of financing. 
Today we are facing the Emergency of Covid-19 which, like what is happening in most countries of the world, expands infected the inhabitants of all social strata but affecting, mainly, dramatically affects the most impoverished sectors of the Country, mainly of the big cities: Guayaquil and Quito. 
Official figures on today's date April 4 report 308 died between confirmed and probable, 3465 confirmed cases and 4475 cases with suspicion, but the official figure does not reflect the reality of the facts that occur in houses and hospitals of the city of Guayaquil, where the dead are accounted for hundreds. 
The national press gives account of 700 deceased in this city of the Pacific, a figure that had never been observed in the city before. 
Again, the presence of the crown virus has exposed the serious deficiencies of public health care by the State, whose responsibility falls on the governments of shift and, at present, on the Government of the LCDO. 
Lenin Moreno and its neoliberal policies that have sought, with the slogan of "reducing the size of the State", reduced and evading fundamental social expenses such as education and health. 
As a consequence, the presence of the pandemic took the country with an affected health structure, decreased in personnel (both of medical professionals, specialists, nurses, as auxiliary workers in the different fields), with great deficiencies in the envelope of medicines and medical supplies, as well as  Insufficient equipment and materials for the protection of professionals and health workers. 
Even the insufficiency of testing kits of the possible affected by the Covid-19 was evident. 
To this is that in a short term the levels of contagion have exceeded 2300 affected and have more than 60 deceased, according to the official figures, although, by the limitations in the availability of evidence, it is estimated that many more affected and deceased are . 
We are the third country with more contagions in Latin America and the second with more deaths after Brazil, but if we compare in terms of geographical and population extension, the number of contagions and killed per capita is the largest of the continent. 
In these conditions, it became urgent to prioritize the expenses of the State's general budget; Taking into account the limited resources available to Ecuador, it was essential to acquire the inputs and more emergencies from the health sector, it was presumed by extensive sectors of society, which is established by the principle of: "First life and then the DEBT". 
More, in full development of the health crisis, the National Government with its Finance Minister Richard Martínez, privileged the payment of external obligations in the 2020 bonds to the Ecuadorian emergencies. 
It was allocated for that purpose 320 million dollars, so necessary to face the effects of the pandemic, today they are valuable funds from which we no longer have to face the crisis that is still increasing. 
The severity of the effects of the pandemic caused by COVID-19 on an international scale, the need to comply with the recommendations of maximum social isolation, through the application of quarantines, avoidance great economic repercussions that are mainly expressed in the most impoverished sectors and that they face their situation in the world of microeconomics, with activities that are resolved with the minimum income they can reach day by day. 
These sectors, which in our case are most, can not fulfill isolation if they do not have compensatory income that resolves feeding in their homes. 
All this reinforces the need to concentrate all possible resources, and even more, to face multilaterally the effects of the pandemic. 
For the considerations indicated, we demand from its authority, radical change in the orientation of the International Monetary Fund, putting in the foremost the impostable health needs and the lives of peoples over the financial obligations of the countries with their creditors. 
Likewise, we request to interpose its actions before the other international, public and private financial organizations, to prevent them from maintaining their requirement that the payment of the credit obligations of our country is prioritized, over the urgent needs of our people. 
On the contrary, we demand that new non-reimbursable credits be managed, given the magnitude of the effects of this pandemic. 
First life and then the debt! It is and will be our main slogan today. 
Quito April 4, 2020  Sincerely,  Jaime Vargas President Conaie  Messiah tatamuez Morenocus President FUT  Nelson Erazo HidalGarppresident National Front Popular  . 
