The Unitary Coordinator of Workers, Indigenous, Peasants and Popular Organizations of Pichincha-Cutcop announced today, Friday, July 24, at a press conference that will take place Saturday, July 25, the Provincial Assembly of Pichincha to schedule the actions that They will face the indigenous lifting and national unemployment, so the representatives of the different organizations were announced. 
Edwin Bedoya, president (E) cutcop, rejected the way the government calls the dialogue, so it said "rejecting government attitudes, which rather than calling a dialogue is calling the conflict between the Ecuadorian people." 
He said that "all this of the dialogue has served as a government theater to continue promoting dismissal campaigns." 
By referring on the letter sent to Fut from Minister Carrasco, he said "for the most fitness". 
Severino Sharupi, leader of Conaie territories, invited members of the different organizations that make up the coordinator to participate in the Assembly. 
Those who do not agree with the survey and unemployment urged that they stay at home so as not to fall into provocations. 
He stressed that from the indigenous sector, peasant, worker and social organizations, assemblies are made in the distinct provinces in order to specify actions against the march, which will start on August 2 from Tundayme, the indigenous uprising summoned for the 10th of the same month and the national unemployment established for August 13. 
In addition, Severino mentioned that the mobilization days will not stop until they get concrete answers. 
"The town of Quito has been a town that knows how to get up, we are convinced that they are going to unite uplifting and national unemployment," he said  José Chusig, by Barrios de Quito, said that the people no longer believe in the policies of the current government so they will participate in the survey and national unemployment. 
By the university sector, Tito Madrid expressed that there is rejection of acts of violence that were generated on June 16 in the Federation of University Students of Ecuador, Feue-Uce. 
Madrid said that "Country Alliance is within the University" and gave the refusal to the statements of the President of Ecuador, Rafael Correa, in favor of Carlos Muñoz. 
. 
