Geneva, Switzerland, June 21, 2015: In a historical decision issued on June 8, 2015, the UN Child Rights Committee (CRC) responded to violations of the rights of children and girls in Sonora caused by The use of highly restricted or prohibited pesticides as presented by the International Council of Indian Treaties (CITI) together with its affiliates in Mexico. 
The CRC, monitoring body of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, reviewed Mexico's compliance as a State party to the Convention during its 69th session from May 19 to 20. 
Paragraphs 51 and 52 of the concluding observations of the CRC addressing Mexico, appearing under the category "Environmental Health," express concern that "the State party has not adopted sufficient measures to deal with air pollution, water, soil and contamination Electromagnetic, which seriously impacts children's and maternal health. 
Import and use of pesticides or chemical products forbidden or restricted use in third countries, which especially affect indigenous girls and children in the state of Sonora, is also a source of deep concern. 
"  Specifically, the CRC recommended that Mexico:  (a) I evaluated the impact that air pollution, water, soil and electromagnetic pollution have on childish and maternal health, as a basis for designing a strategy provided with resources at the federal, state and local levels based on consultations with all communities , especially with indigenous peoples, to remedy the situation and drastically reduce exposure to pollutants;  (b) prohibit the import and use of any pesticide or chemical that has been prohibited or restricted for use in the exporting country;  (c) Examine more thoroughly its regulatory framework and adapts it to ensure that companies that participate in activities that have a negative impact on the environment take legal responsibility, taking into account their general observation No. 
16 (2013) on the obligations of States in relation to the impact of the business sector in the rights of the child. 
Violations presented by CITI to CRC focused on import and use by Mexico of pesticides that have been prohibited, not registered or highly restricted in the United States, the European Union and other exporting countries because of their health effects, Mortal and well-known. 
These include reproductive abnormalities, children's cancers and severe birth defects. 
Since 2001, CITI has worked with members of the Yaqui community and the traditional Yaquis authorities to collect more than 80 testimonies that document diseases, disabilities, injuries and more than 25 deaths linked to exposure to pesticides. 
The written report presented by the CITI to the CRC includes 39 testimonials specifically related to children. 
Its report also indicates the Committee Article 29 of the United Nations, which stipulates that States "shall adopt effective measures to ensure that hazardous materials or territories of indigenous peoples are not stored or eliminated without their free consent. Informed "and ensure the implementation of" control, maintenance and health reinstatement programs "of indigenous peoples. 
Executive Director of the Citi Andrea Carmen, Francisco Villegas Walls and traditional midwife Aurelia Espinoza Buitimea, from the Yaqui nation in Arizona EE. 
His. 
and Sonora Mexico, attended the session on behalf of the CITI. 
The Lord. 
Villegas and Mrs. 
Espinoza are members of the Community OrganizationJitto Bat Nataka WeriaBasada in Vicam, Yaqui River, one of the most affected communities in the region. 
Andrea Carmen emphasized the historical meaning of CRC recommendations: "This is the first time we have seen the Committee make a specific statement on environmental health as an element of compliance by the State with article 24 of the Convention, which addresses Children and maternal health including the impacts of environmental contaminants. 
If applied, the recommendations of the Committee may have powerful repercussions for indigenous children in Rio Yaqui and in other parts of Mexico and the world. 
The CITI, together with the Committee, will continue to monitor compliance with Mexico with these recommendations to protect the lives and health of our children. 
"  The full text of the CRC concluding observations addressing the Mexico report can be downloaded from the CRC website:  http: // tbinternet. 
ohchr. 
org/Treaties/CRC/Shared%20Documents/MEX/INT_CRC_COC_MEX_20804_E. 
pdf. 
The complete submission of the CITI to the CRC for its examination of Mexico can be downloaded from:  http: // tbinternet. 
ohchr. 
org/Treaties/CRC/Shared%20Documents/MEX/INT_CRC_NGO_MEX_20330_E. 
pdf. 
Source: Continental Link of Indigenous Women of the Americas - Echmia. 
. 
