Hundreds of men and women of the canton Cayambe, belonging to the Kayambi people, of the parishes: Cangahua, Otto, Ascázubi and Cusubamba arrived today, Tuesday, January 17, 2017, at the headquarters of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Aquaculture and Fisheries, Magap , located in Quito to demand that an irrigation project assessed by 4'403'926.00. 
The main representatives of water gaskets, from the Kayambi people maintained a meeting with the Deputy Minister of the State Portfolio. 
Several users noted that they are agricultures and that the non-compliance with this project brought economic losses for several families. 
"We have a great loss of food, a great loss of water. 
That is why the requirement that the Minister is committed to go and solve the problems. " 
Luis Ulcuango. 
The present crowd in the exteriors of the Magap shouted that the work is fulfilled. 
Shouting, they demanded a solution to the conflict, because, to say of the acquis, they would not leave without a concrete response. 
Watch video at the end of the note. 
While the meeting was held among the Meeting between representatives of organizations and vice minister. 
After several hours of reflection, the parties signed an act of commitment. 
Jorge Herrera, president of CONAIE, accompanied in this management and signed as witness of honor the agreement reached by the parties. 
According to the document indicates that the agreements are:  Start comprehensive studies 11 km from the channel by Magap in an emerging manner and to conlude them within a maximum period of 4 months. 
Follow the legal procedures pertinent by the inconvenience presented in the work, to responsible persons (contractual). 
MAGAP is responsible for making the necessary joints and budget management, before the corresponding public institutions, for the integral arrangement of the work and its operation, within a maximum period of 6 months after the studies. 
Organize a joint meeting between the Provincial Government of Pichincha, Magap and the representatives of irrigation boards. 
Once the work has been completed, the MAGAP will manage the delivery of the administration of the Water Boards of Guanguilquí and Porotog, by the State. 
Document   . 
