PRESS RELEASE  Bulk, Gualaquiza. 
January 25, 2015. 
The struggle and unity of the Cordillera del Cóndor are strengthened. 
Bosco Wisum, Freddy Taish, José Tendetz have not died. 
Your fight continues!  In the parish Bomboiza, Gualaquiza Canton, Province of Morona Santiago, with the presence of Shuar Bomboiza, Churuwia and Arutam associations, FICSH subsidiaries; PanGui and Tayunts, Filenosh-Zch, with the presence of Cascomi, Conaie, Conféniae and Assembly of South Peoples, 500 representatives of Shuar and Peasant Organizations of the Provinces of Morona Santiago, Zamora Chinchipe, Azuay, meet. Cañar and Loja, to analyze the situation of the Southern Region of Ecuador before the existing mining conflict. 
Jorge Herrera, President Conaie, (standing). 
Franco Viteri, President of Confeniae, (D). 
In view of the great conflict existing in the area due to the mining problem, by order of the bases, this Magna Assembly was convened, which was raised as objectives: i) strengthen the unity and the struggle of communities affected by the Mining at the Cordillera del Cóndor, ii) Visibilize the critical points of conflicts and propose strategies in the political, legal and communicative field and iii) generate protection actions to precautionary the safety of the leaders of the conflict zones. 
The scale of conflicts that in the last two years has brought the death of the fellow Shuar Freddy Taish and José Tendetza, motivated the realization of this event, his example was one of the emotional symbols for the attendees, who alive Voz flushed Sets Bosco Wisuma, Freddy Taish, José Tendetza, his fight continues !!!  In the words of opening, Tomás Jimpikit, president of the Shuar Bomboiza Association, said it is a historical day that consolidates the unity and the struggle of the Cordillera del Cóndor; "We are clear and we will never allow the looting of our territory," he said. 
Jorge Herrera, president of the CONAIE, greeted the participants and reported some of the key points of the national agenda of indigenous movement, such as land law, the comfort of the Casa de la Conaie, mobilization, among others. 
For his part, Franco Viteri, president of the Confénia, affirmed that "Shuar people are being run over and it is time for that to stop. 
We demand from here an environmental audit and the control of mining activity in the Southern Amazon. 
We must assemble political, legal and communication strategies, without setting aside the mobilization as another of our tools, as the Amazon is permanently mobilized. " 
They also intervened the presidents of the Fepnash-Zamora Chinchipe, Ricardo Nantip and Assembly of the Peoples of the South, Abel Arpi. 
In the exhibitions of critical conflict areas in the Cordillera del Cóndor, representatives of the communities such as Luis Ayui (Arutam), Luis Tiwiram (Churuwia), Sunday and Raúl Ankuash (Bomboiza), Luis Sánchez (Tundayme ), Pascual TseRemb (Numpaim), Carlos Tendetza (Yanua Kim) and Gilberto Ankuash (Tayuntsa), gave an experiential testimony of the different problems affremed by its bases, as well as its firm willingness to fight and resist at the pretensions of the transnational Enter the territories of Morona Santiago and Zamora Chinchipe. 
In his story, he announced the abuses lived by the indigenous and peasant bases by national and transnational companies such as ECSA Equacercorientes. 
"We have been displaced although in the speech and propaganda the ECSA company fills my mouth saying that it has not caused displacements," said the representative of Cascomi, Tundayme, in his speech. 
In an emotional discourse, Carlos Tendetza, brother of the Joseph, murdered in December 2014, said "Many say that José Tendetza has died, but I tell all of you who tendetza is not dead because here is another tendetza. 
This tendetza will fight strongly, even if the company says that Tendetza killed him. 
Government gentlemen make it clear, notify the police and the military, which tendetza has not died! I will defend my land with more desire, with more courage and here I will be present, at the foot of the fight. 
Here I am and I will die defending my land. " 
After a plenary nourishing with the participation of all the delegates of the communities and centers present, the following resolutions were taken as main:  1. 
Require the central government that the General Comptroller of the State carries out an environmental audit and the control of large-scale mining activity in the Cordillera del Cóndor, in order to clarify the problem existing in the area and precautionary the way of life of our Shuar nationality . 
This audit aims to know the real situation of mining activity and its repercussions on the social, economic, environmental, labor and security field in indigenous and peasant communities in the area. 
2. 
Require the Ecuadorian government through its respective instances the clarification of the murder of Freddy Taish and José Tendetza. 
We ratify that this and other events are the result of the social impacts generated by the mega mining in our territories, a situation that will not stop while the national and transnational companies are therefore, we demand the exit of the ECSA company and others of Shuar territory. 
3. 
Form a front for the unity and defense of the communities of the Cordillera del Cóndor with the legitimate representatives of the associations, communities and parish together, with the political coverage of their respective regional and national organizations. 
This instance is responsible for operating and visible the resolutions taken in this and other assemblies. 
4. 
Keeping us in constant mobilization, performing permanent assemblies in Shuar Associations and Communities, peasants and mestizos with emerging conflicts. 
5. 
Create a legal commission to face the cases arising from the Cordillera del Cóndor in an agile and effective manner, generating protection actions to precautionary the safety of leaders and members of the communities. 
We demand among other actions an international endurist to verify the effects of mining in the south of the country. 
6. 
Anesened to our right to self-determination, realize our own consultation processes against mining activity in the Cordillera del Cóndor, given that this has not been carried out in our territory by the central government. 
7. 
Strengthen an inter-organizational communication network formed by communication responsible for each of the communities of conflict, in a coordinated manner for an effective dissemination of existing problems. 
8. 
Conform a community security network that ensures the integrity of its leaders, its partners and territory. 
9. 
Angend to the defense actions of the CONAIE house in a coordinated manner with the leadership, since it constitutes a heritage of the people and nationalities of Ecuador. 
10. 
Participate actively at the National Summit of Peoples to be held on March 5 and 6 in Quito, as an action to strengthen the mobilization and unity of our peoples. 
11. 
Join the national mobilization process convened from Conaie and Confédae, with active participation from the bases. 
Communication Department  . 
