GualAquiza, July 14, 2016  Press release  The Organizations of the Southern Center of the Ecuadorian Amazon, which are part of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie and the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon, Confédae, were summoned on July 13 and 14, 2016 in the city of Gualaquiza, Province of Morona Santiago, for the community communication workshop with an emphasis on incidence campaigns, where the campaign called Amazon was defined is my life whose official launch will take place in the city of Quito, on Saturday, August 13 of this year Within the framework of the Festival "Indomable Amazon". 
The campaign is born of the consensus between the indigenous and mestizo organizations of the Southern Center of the Ecuadorian Amazon for the need to create awareness of the town on the citizen and protection of the biodiversity of this region comprised by the provinces of Pastaza, Morona Santiago and Zamora Chinchipe , which is also ancestral territory of eight indigenous peoples and nationalities. 
This region is rich in water sources that are tributaries of the Napo, Pastaza, Morona and Santiago rivers that feed the great Amazon River. 
It is considered that the entire Amazon basin has 20% of the freshwater on the planet, and the part corresponding to the Ecuadorian territory is the most biodiverse per unit area worldwide, as it contains about 20 thousand species of plants, 480 species of Mammals, 1600 species of birds and many others that are still being discovered and are unique from the area. 
In this same area Megadivena seeks to implement the oil and mining exploitation, which has already provoked the first damages and socio-environmental consequences: contamination of water and air sources, loss of fauna and flora, in addition, of social conflicts. 
This is why organizations propose the joint defense of this territory and invite citizens in general to join this common cause. 
The campaign will be launched officially by communities and organizations during the Festival "Amazon Indomable", as an important space to position our approaches. 
In addition to the artistic presentations, there will be an Amazonian exhibition fair of the feet of struggle where products, crafts, gastronomy and proposals for the defense of the life forms of the population will be exhibited. 
We invite citizens to accompany us during this event and adhere to our campaign through our communication channels on the web and social networks. 
Communication  . 
