D. 
M. 
, Quito, June 18, 2020  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE) to the country:  As the COVID-19 pandemic progresses, during the last weeks the situation of indigenous peoples and nationalities has worsened to become critical, we face not only the direct havoc caused by the pandemic, but also the irresponsibility and neglect of a government Neoliberal who has opted to safeguard the interests of the great groups of economic power and not the health and well-being of the Ecuadorian people. 
Day by day we observed the increase in contagions and deaths, which, instead of decreasing, increases uncontrollably. 
The absence of a management strategy for this specific health crisis for indigenous peoples, has become a serious risk for our survival. 
Statistical data disaggregated on peoples and nationalities have not been made public, regarding the number of cases of contagion, suspected, deaths and recovered. 
In these conditions it is even more difficult to act and now the situation has completely overflowed in our territories. 
The Government did not take culturally adequate prevention initiatives for indigenous peoples. 
The COVID 19 tests that are carried out are insufficient and a follow-up of diagnosed patients is not carried out; Epidemiological fences are virtually nonexistent; Health centers are devoid of essential inputs, medicines and medical personnel to address the emergency product of budget cuts that left the public health system in total vulnerability before the pandemic. 
Added to this, extractive activities were not stopped in our territories, thus increasing the risk of contagion in the communities. 
While the country sinks into corruption, our communities are dying. 
Carlos Bay Ima and Timpo Alejandro Omeway died, of the nationality Waorani of the Yasuní. 
Also Marco Santi Gualinga, from the original Kichwa town of Sarayaku and Juan Manuel Castro Cocha, a historic leader of the Panzaleo town of Cotopaxi. 
We also left Dr. Patricio Ainguano Uñog, a doctor of the Chibuleo town in Tungurahua, who worked until the last day in the promotion of intercultural health. 
And so, dozens of partners and more companions, whose names we will always take in memory as examples of the fight. 
Faced with this situation of death that we have been dragged, and the indolence of a negligent and irresponsible government, from the dignity of our historical struggles and that of our dead, we denounced before the country and the world the serious situation for which we are Crossing the indigenous people of Ecuador, we call the solidarity of all social sectors and we demand:   That the transparent government and immediately make all data and statistical indicators related to the impacts of the pandemic on indigenous peoples, in terms of health, education and any other involvement for their living conditions. 
That the authorities in charge of the management of the health crisis design and immediately implement an intercultural emergency health strategy for indigenous peoples and nationalities, culturally appropriate, with the participation and consultation of our representatives. 
That the most affected indigenous territories is urgently destined medical personnel and equipment for health subceentros, medical brigades of prevention and primary care, essential medicines, as well as emergency evacuation means located in remote areas;   That mechanisms are defined to coordinate the urgent delivery of humanitarian assistance in all affected indigenous communities and territories (culturally appropriate food kits, kits with implements for biosecurity such as masks, disinfection and others);   That all legal and illegal extractive activities are immediately stopped in our territories, by constituting spotlights that exponentially increase risks for our communities. 
Likewise  We demand that the Ecuadorian State assume their responsibility for the oil spill of the Sote and the OCP event on April 7 and the rights of affected communities are restored. 
That the unconstitutional budget cuts for health and education are immediately stopped and that, on the contrary, greater resources are reallocated to face the serious health, economic and social crisis through which the country is going through. 
To immediately stop the criminal looting of the public resources of all Ecuadorians, a consequence of the corruption virus that has practically infected all state institutions and in which all power groups are immersed. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
