Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, October 26, 2017  After a joint management between the President of the Conaie, Jaime Vargas; Confeniae and Orellana's nationalities, on October 25, 2017, a commission of ministers led by the National Secretary of Policy Management, Miguel Carvajal, arrived at the Parish Inés Arango to establish an agreement with indigenous, peasants and workers who For 21 days they held a paralysis for the requirement for compliance and respect for their rights. 
For three hours of talks in a popular assembly, the work demands of workers were to be solved so that they can access work squares equitably from the four parishes: Inés Arango, Dayuma, Taracoa and El Dorado who are in the Block 61. 
Another achievement was that the workers who were employed by the CGA contractor go directly to the new CPP contractor, all under a collective contract, the main working vindication. 
For its part, health, infrastructure, viability, education issues will begin to be resolved within a maximum period of three weeks. 
Another commitment of vital importance is that in 15 days an environmental audit will be held to the operations of the different wells of the Campos Cononaco and Auca to be able to measure environmental impacts, especially water and land for this way to be able to work immediately in The remediation, compensation and compensation to the affected communities. 
Undoubtedly this is a triumph of the organized people where the presence of Marlon Vargas, president of Confénia, in territory, organizing and leading his bases, and from the Conaie with his President Jaime Vargas, who was able to create the political conditions for him to be Visit is realized, it has been fruits, becoming clear that collective and coordinated work is always the best way out to solve problems. 
From CONAIE and CONFENIATE, we will accompany the process so that the arrival agreements are fulfilled in the established time and express our approval with the management carried out by Minister Miguel Carvajal for having reached a solution to the case. 
We call on local and provincial authorities to work together for the defense of the rights of peoples, nationalities, the workers and peasant sector. 
We urge our bases to the unit above all so that together we can achieve achievements for the good of all. 
Jaime Vargas Marlon Vargas  President Conaie President Confédae  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
