The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, CONAIE, and the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Equatorial Amazon, Conféde, through press conference, died today, Thursday, December 15, official statements about the conflict that is present in Nankints and the state decline of exception made by the government yesterday, Wednesday, December 14, during hours of the night. 
Faced with this situation, Jorge Herrera, president of CONAIE, called for human rights agencies (national and international) and the Church to be mediators before the "Difficult" situation that crosses the country, and in particular the Nankint community located in the Province of Morona Santiago Due to the presence of ExSa Chinese mining express who settled out evicting the Shuar community, which revived resistance against mining. 
Herrera recalled that "communities are settled in the 15 thousand hectares in the Nankints Communisa," for that, "they are not invaders, they are communities that hundreds of years are living in their communities" and that consequently they are "legitimate owners" . 
The holder of the Conaie said that who is causing violence is the state, because disrespected due procedures to implement open-pit mining in indigenous territories, such as prior consultation, free and informed. 
In addition, he stressed that Conaie had warned the Government of Ecuador on possible consequences that would generate militarization in indigenous territories. 
He said that solutions had been sought to the conflict. 
He mentioned that they sent a document on November 22 to the Joint Command of the Armed Forces, Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Defense and the Ombudsman to seek peaceful outings. 
Marlon Vargas, president of Conféniae, said that "they have not consulted us, they have not summoned. 
We have said we do not want violence in Morona Santiago, but the government has ignored. " 
He reaffirmed that they will defend their ancestral territories "until the last consequences". 
White Chancosa, Vice President of Ecuerunari, was sympathetic with the population of Morona Santiago and in particular with the Nankints community. 
Chancosa told Correa that how would you answer if a stranger enters her home and mistreated her daughter and woman? 
What Shuar do is to defend their rights, and who urges violence is the government, highlighted. 
Full press conference  . 
