The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE) with the support of the Regional Human Rights Advisory Foundation (INDREDH) today presented, Tuesday, April 18, 2017, a protection action with a joint precautionary measure against the "Code of Code Organic citizen participation and social control ", in the city hall of the city of Quito. 
The Permanent Specialized Commission of Citizen Participation and Social Control of the National Assembly of Ecuador chaired by Jhoanna Cedeño Zambrano, did not conduct pre-legislative consultation on the formulation and presentation of the bill, much less socialized its construction with civil society, violating this Collective Law of Communisses, Communities, Peoples and Indigenous Nationalities. 
Several articles of the bill, of being approved, would unconstitutionally and illegitimately limit the right to freedom of association, the right to prior free and informed consultation of natives, communities, peoples and indigenous nationalities. 
Thus, as the right to environmental consultation. 
Therefore, we present a protective action with precautionary measure against the Specialized Commission that developed the bill. 
The protection action was presented by the lack of pre-legislative consultation with indigenous communities, communities and peoples, while the request for precautionary measure seeks to suspend the process of approval of the bill. 
Petitions of protection action  The articulate that has not been consulted and that could violate collective rights is eliminated from the bill. 
A draft law of self-determination and prior and prelegisive consultation to indigenous peoples is built in a participatory way and their legislative procedure begins. 
Reformed by the Regulation for pre-legislative consultation with the objective of responding to the constitutional and internationally established parameters for the effect. 
Measurement request  May the Assembly, through its competent agencies or authorities, suspend the process of approval of the bill "Organic Code of Citizen Participation and Social Control", which has been sent on March 31, 2017 to the Presidency of the Assembly. 
We demand that, once the Quito Rackroom Designate the Judge or Judge responsible for substantialing this constitutional action, the audience is installed as soon as possible to avoid greater damage or violation of the collective rights of communes, communities, peoples and indigenous nationalities of Ecuador. 
Demand in PDF.  Bill "Organic code of the citizen participation system and social control"  . 
