Press release  Quito, December 13, 2017  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador - Conaie led, since last November 27, the "march for a dialogue with results" that began from the Base Union Community -Puyo direction to the city of Quito with the clear objective of demanding the national government Concrete results to the mandate presented on July 4 against Lenin Moreno within the framework of national dialogue. 
Conaie and his three regional: Confédae, Ecuarunari and Conaice; As well as the Association of Triciclers, which are the new reality of the indigenous movement, they added strength on Monday, December 11 for the great entrance to the Plaza Grande with a massive support of more than ten thousand people. 
We reaffirm our position before the defense of territories and sources of water, the right to bilingual intercultural education, free access to universities, the free self-determination of organizations and front struggle against corruption at all levels. 
From La Conaie we greet the opening that Lenín Moreno, president of Ecuador, has to give solutions to some approaches, however we are aware that the background problem has not yet met. 
We recognize the firm expression of "no more mining concessions in Ecuador"; Solution of emblematic cases of land and territories: you zulay, tzawata, shamato and others; Restitution of bilingual intercultural education; immediate response to community transport and the problem in the price of milk; as well as the constitution of a commission to give solution to the case of amnesty for social fighters. 
Therefore from Conaie and its structure, we will be vigilant and constantly follow-up so that the national government's commitments are specified in the stipulated times, while continued with the search for outputs to the entire mandate presented on July 4. 
Our recognition and gratitude to all Conaie organizations, as well as social and popular organizations, to the new realities of the indigenous movement - Association of Tricelers of the Wholesale Market, Students, Academy and Different Personalities that contributed in this Fighting process. 
We believe that the achievements and rights achieved for the indigenous sector, over five centuries of ethnocide, exclusion and oppression, is due to the organization, the strength and commitment that each of our bases has to build a more just society and equitable, where access to basic services and the exercise of the rights stipulated in the 2008 Constitution, ILO Agreement 169 and the Declaration of Human Rights are not a privilege of the domes, but an obligation of the State with The Ecuadorian people in general. 
We reaffirm our commitment to our bases that the actions that from the national will be raised will always be based on the needs and mandate of communes, communities, peoples and nationalities. 
Since we already reject any pretension to take our struggles for personal and particularized benefit, so we invite forces between the field and the city for the construction of the plurinational state. 
Jaime Vargas.  President of Conaie.  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
