Jorge Herrera, president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE) reported yesterday, January 12, 2016, who will attend the Manuela Pacheco and Manuel Trujillo audience, leaders of the San Pablo community of Amali, Canton Chillanes, province Bolivar, accused by the alleged crime of organized terrorism. 
Herrera pointed out that the indigenous movement will accompany this process of criminalization against two leaders who defend the water and land of the Hydotambo company S. 
To which he built the hydroelectric plant in the community. 
Manuel and Manuel were accused of the alleged crime of terrorism organized by the events that occurred on August 14, 2012, the day confrontations between the police force and member of the community in resistance was generated. 
Of these facts is intended to take responsibility for the two leaders based on the police part prepared by the greatest Roosevelt Vinicio Albán Moreta that the two comuneros together with 12 people attacked four policemen and destroyed a police vehicle. 
According to the old criminal code, in article 160. 
1 points out that the organized crime of terrorism will be sanctioned with a penalty of 4 to 8 years of imprisonment and a $ 1 fine. 
767 a $4. 
018.  The audience will be desatolled on January 19, 2016, in the Criminal Guarantee Court in the city of Guaranda, at 09:00  Fact:  Manuela Narcisa Pacheco 47-year-old Zapata is one of the inhabitants of the San Pablo community of Amali, Parish San José del Tambo, Cantón Chillanes, in the province of Bolivar, who resisted along with other comuneros the abuses suffered by the police force and Military that entered the community in 2012. 
They guarded the staff of the hydrotamque hydroelectric plant. 
A. 
More at: #yosoymanuela  Manuel Cornelio Trujillo Secaira, leader of the San Pablo community of Amali, has faced 42 processes and now he expects the hearing of judgment by the alleged crime of "organized terrorism". 
More at: #yosoymanuel  Taken from Inredh  . 
