On the ground we sow food, no experimentations, nor threat to humanity. 
This was why members of various civil society organizations that concerned about the Presidential Veto on Transgenics were called at the coneire headquarters on May 22. 
Around 20 people exchanged perspectives and contexts on the law of agrobiodiversity and seeds approved on May 4 but mainly on veto that on May 19 signed the outgoing president Rafael Correa and where he opens the door to transgenics for research and experimentation purposes . 
From the indigenous peoples, peasants, rural, urban, workers, of the Sierra and the coast, Afro, Montubi, Mestizos, all and we all know that threatening the food is threatening the life for it at this meeting, it was agreed to make social pressure So that the veto does not pass in assembly or in a case, continue the requirement with any necessary measure. 
Among the following actions, the CONAIE will share information to the bases to continue dialogue and reflect on this system that sharpens control measures in the field, land and food. 
We also join the communication and disclosure in social networks and means of information about what this can mean in the daily life of base organizations and indigenous peoples. 
Join with Hashtag # EcuadorLibredgenics and # YonousOnSgenics  With life it is not played. 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  We summoned to send a letter to the President of the National Assembly, as well as Ricardo Zambrano Member of the Food Sovereignty Commission:  URGENT ACTION:  The Constitution of Ecuador declared the country "free of cultivation and transgenic seeds". 
Now, a few days after finishing its mandate, the outgoing President strap makes a partial vetment to the law of seeds, in which the entry of transgenic seeds and crops to Ecuador for research purposes would be allowed. 
Although it is asked to be only for research purposes, we know that "experimentation" with transgenic crops are an open door for legalization. 
Please help that Ecuador stay free of transgenics. 
Send a letter to Jose. 
Serrano @ Assemblyational. 
gob. 
EC, Ricardo. 
Zambrano @ Assembleanational. 
gob. 
EC.  Proposed text  Mr. Doctor  José Serrano.  President of the National Assembly  ECUADOR  Ricardo Zambrano.  President of the Commission  Of food sovereignty  The world has observed with great admiration that Ecuador was the first declared country constitutionally declared as free of transgenic crops and seeds, since we know the impacts that transgenics produce in human health, the environment and productive systems. 
We have had knowledge, through a veto a new seed law, you could afford to Ecuador of Transgenic Seeds for Research (which is the door for approval for commercial purposes), and that is in your hands take this decision. 
We hope, Mr. Assemblyman that this proposal is not accepted, so that agrobiodiversity and peasant agriculture of Ecuador can be precaute. 
Atentamente,
Nombre
ORGANIZACIÓN
===============
URGENT ACTION
The Constitution of Ecuador declared the country “Free of   Transgenic Seeds and Crops”. 
Now, a few days after finishing his term, outgoing President Correa vetoes the seeds law, which would allow transgenic seeds and crops to enter Ecuador for research purposes. 
Although it is requested to be only for research purposes, we know that “experimentation” with GM crops is an open door for its legalization. 
Please help Ecuador keep GM-free. 
Send a letter to:
jose. 
Serrano @ Assemblyational. 
gob. 
EC  Ricardo. 
Zambrano @ Assembleanational. 
gob. 
ec
Proposed text
Honorable
José Serrano
PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
ECUADOR
Honorable
Ricardo Zambrano
PRESIDENTE COMISISSION
FOOD SOVEREIGNITY
The world has noted with great admiration that Ecuador was the first country declared constitutionally Free of Transgenic Seeds and Crops. 
We have learned that transgenic seeds may be allowed to enter Ecuador for research, and it is up to you to make this decision. 
We hope that this proposal will not be accepted, so that agrobiodiversity and peasant agriculture can be protected. 
Sincerely yours,
Name
ORGANIZATION
 

 
. 
