The Governing Council of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conaie headed by Jorge Herrera, president, gathered on the morning of this Tuesday, January 3, 2017, with the Mons. 
Fausto travez where a document was left with 5 points for mediation in the Nankints case in Morona Santiago. 
According to Jorge Herrera, president of CONAIE, he said that the Monsignor TRAVES received the document with the 5 points, which will be revised and analyzed (by Obizpo) and then issuing a circulation of mediation from the Episcopal Conference. 
Within the budget made by the Conaie are: the demilitarization of Nankints and the province of Morona Santiago; The conformation of a Veedora Commission that is responsible for investigating the details of the San Carlos de Panantza mining project; establish a commission to determine and identify the ancestral possession of the territories of peoples and nationalities; the realization of prior, free and informed consultation of indigenous populations that affect extractive projects; and the non-judicialization to leaders and leaders. 
The Government of Ecuador has rejected the forms of peaceful solution to the Nakints conflict that has raised the indigenous-CONAIE movement, such as the international mediation request, because to say by Rafael Correa the dialogue spaces have already been exhausted. 
While Conaie insists on giving solutions to the conflict established in Nankints, Morona Santiago for the presence of EXSA Chinese mining. 
The Shuar people are closely linked with nature and jungle, that is why resistance to mining and oil exploitation, they hold the leaders of the area. 
The Episcopal Conference so far has only issued a press release, calling for the parties to have certain aspects and to give an exit to the conflict in a dialogue. 
UN Experts on Human Rights said, in past weeks, that they are concerned about the situation of Nankints and the way the Government aims to solve. 
Correa for its part rejected the observations made by the experts of Human Rights. 
. 
