Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, July 14, 2015  The Governing Council of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, elected for the period 2014-2017 at the V Congress held on May 16 and 17, 2014 in Tungurahua fulfills one year in its functions in the midst of political tensions by the that crosses Ecuador. 
The lack of response to the proposals made from the indigenous movement and social sectors on topics such as: Land Law; Water Law; Bilingual Intercultural Education; Oil exploitation; Collective rights; Indigenous justice; Labor justice; Food sovereignty and other issues Motivate that the Ordinary Annual Assembly is the space in which decisions and actions are made to ensure compliance with a true plurinational status and the Sumak Kawsay is fulfilled as guaranteed by the Constitution approved in 2008 in Concordance With the traditions, customs and cosmovisions of the towns and nationalities of Ecuador. 
Once again the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador ratifies the fight and resistance as a means to hear the voices of men, women, collectives that their rights are violated and strongly to reject the policies that affect the most impoverished of our country. 
Likewise, we reject the Government's clienter and divisionist policy that aims to capture certain leaders from grassroots organizations. 
"The Ecuadorian government initiates a national dialogue when it has been a long time. 
It calls on dialogue and continues with the persecution, repression and criminalization of social protest. 
How can we enter a dialogue? While continuing to differentiate those in good faith and those in bad faith we can not access. 
It's too late for dialogue "Precise Jorge Herrera. 
"The indigenous movement and social organizations are not to play on the right of Correa, LaSo and Nebot. 
Within the points to be treated in the Assembly, it consists of the conjunctural analysis and the national unemployment. 
The date will be taken into consensus with the basic organizations, because in the movement the decisions are collective and not since the leadership "Announces J. 
Herrera 
The following agenda will be developed in the Assembly: Annual Report of the Governing Council; Analysis on bilingual intercultural education; reflection on the agrarian summit; Current juncture and national town of the town and as a last point the current situation of the Pachakutik movement. 
The event will be held at the Parochial Board of the Salasaca Village (Via to Canton Baños) in the province of Tungurahua. 
We invite the different base organizations, communities, towns and nationalities to attend their respective delegations to this Great Event. 
Similar to fraternal organizations and the national collective. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President of the Conaie  . 
