Press release  Riobamba, September 6, 2017  Upon doors to make our Great VI Congress, the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-CONAIE inform our bases and public opinion on our participation in the Assembly carried out by the bases of the Confederation of the Chimborazo indigenous movement -comich- today September 6, 2017 in the city of Riobamba, with the only point of organizing the participation of the local organization in Congress to be held in Zamora Chinchipe. 
Due to rumors raised by social networks, we clarify that the CONAIE has not made any invitation to the PREFECT MARIANO CURICAMA or other public authorities to this event. 
His presence responded exclusively to dynamics themselves of the territory and the local organization. 
The CONAIE is aware of the problems raised during the last ten years of the correor in La Comich, one of the largest and most representative organizations of the indigenous movement, which implied a strong blow for the indigenous movement and its Pachakutik political arm. 
Therefore, we were present in Chimborazo today with the clarity that it is our responsibility to mediate and give outs the existing conflict and not deepen it more, assuming the need to recover this social basis to the guiding principles of the indigenous movement, with the desire to recover the Unit of the organization and its strengthening. 
Considering further that the CONAIE has reached this Assembly, as it is appropriate, as a maximum authority by invitation from the basic organizations to mediate the existing conflict in the province. 
The call made had as the only point to define the participation of the bases in the VI CONAIE Congress. 
After a deep discussion, it was resolved that the province will carry an official delegation made up of the 31 organizations equitably (two delegates by OSG with their respective Act) to cover the established quotas. 
The second-degree organizations that constitute the Comich, according to Article 10 of the Statute of the Organization are: COCHIC, UODIC, COCAIG, CORCACH, UCOIC, VASAC, Corporación Pangor, Cocsl, Chavico Kamach, Inga Ñan, Coical, Cocif, Uocaip, Association Los Olivos, Focifch, Inca Atahualpa, Foijag, AMIB Mushuk Pakari, MUPP-NP, Inti Raymi, Fomipaq, Coice, Zula Corporation, Cocan Corporation, Cacha Pueblo, Codepiq, Aprosech, Picg, Chakareros, Indigenous Pastors, Lyctos Village . 
With the resolution, we consider that the participation of communities and historical organizations with an equitable internal representation is guaranteed. 
It is not the competence of the CONAIE to isolate one or another group, or slaughter a given trend. 
This would be demonstrated unable to process internal differences and not assume the political task of unification and work at the base by CONAIE. 
Therefore, all our grassroots organizations are called to the unity of peoples and nationalities. 
We reiterate our invitation to discuss political theses with height, always considering our historical legacy of fight against oppression, domination and exploitation in search of a real transformation of social structures, and the construction of the plurinational State. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
