Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, November 18, 2016  The presence of China's president Xi Jinping in Ecuador is a symptom of how the dependence of Ecuador is deepened, as a supplier of raw materials and primary goods for the main industrial producer of the planet in this new stage of colonization with the Chinese Empire. 
The "Strategic Alliance" that the Government of Rafael Correa celebrates expressing "eternal gratitude" to the Chinese president is presented in isolation as a mechanism to specify financing lines for projects such as the Pacific refinery and give new impetus to traditional cooperation areas; However, the evidence of the results of this strategic alliance in the decade of the citizen revolution, is a rise in the external indebtedness tied to the sale of natural resources, which has not resulted in a change of the productive matrix, but in a Advanced unavoidable state over the territories for extractivist expansion -where is evidently found in frank contradiction. 
What is in debate is whether the development strategy promoted by the government from the Alliance with China leading in some way to good living (or socialism), or is a need to sustain a form of neo developing that finally benefits The capitalist groups and the deepening of a type of economy that delves the increasingly intense exploitation of workers and nature. 
In this discussion is the life of indigenous peoples, social and labor rights, and the subsistence of diversity as a basis for a non-capitalist economy among many other dimensions that determine our future. 
The blindness of the president for development does not allow him to dimension the consequences of mortgaging our territories to China. 
That is why we reject the visit of Xi Jinping to the country, worse, we reject what it implies. 
As indigenous peoples we will remain firm in defense of our territories, from the rights of our people, of a plurinational state and the Sumak Kawsay. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
