D. 
M. 
Quito, May 7, 2016  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conaie, announced this morning at the press conference at its headquarters that an Amnesty request will be presented at the National Assembly through Pachakutik Legislators and Legislators for those who are processed, sentenced and criminalized / As for participating in the actions in fact during the indigenous lifting process last August 2015 in demand for the compliance of the demands of peoples and nationalities. 
In addition, the United Nations representative in Quito, Diego Zorrilla, received the testimonies of Luisa Lozano, Friendly Angamarca and the report presented by the CONAIE through its President Jorge Herrera. 
According to Herrera, UN Slim accepted that these facts will be taken to the UN High Commissioner and that within the country will be investigated on the facts. 
Jorge Herrera indicated that "more audiences for colleagues and companions" that participated in defense of the rights of peoples and nationalities were attended. 
He ratified that judicial processes will not stop the demands made by indigenous movement so that the requests made is fulfilled. 
He recalled that they ask for the rectory of bilingual intercultural education, free access to education, not close to community schools, and others. 
Luisa Lozano and Friendly Angamarc thanked the support of Solidarity that the citizenship is generally. 
They emphasized that they are not "guilty". 
Angamarca said it is a community communicator and the only thing he did is inform the population about the needs of the Saraguro people and the actions in fact. 
Lozano affirmed that "just for defending a woman, she was sentenced," she recalled that the public force entered community territories invading the houses. 
The presentation of the Amnesty request will be held this day Thursday at the National Assembly of Ecuador. 
Prior to delivery, a press conference will be carried out at 10h00 in the press room of the Assembly. 
Conaie communication  Bulletin in PDF: Here  . 
