The government of Rafael Correa has generated a culture of violence, racism, discrimination, intolerance, blackmail, persecution, and intimidation in these more than 8 years of the "citizen revolution", as a result has established a policy of violence, from the State for The people, against those who do not align with their policy. 
Correa has used expressions as "feathered", "golden ponchos", "throws stones", "descentas" "ridiculous" "siki ñawi" and other qualifiers against indigenous movement, social organizations, unions, student and their Herself who is promoted through citizen links, interviews, press chairs. 
Social networks are given constant attacks with insults as "vague Indians", "ignorant Indians" from the famous sympathizers of the Government and militants of Country Alliance in a systematic manner that discredits the way of making politics in a democratic, multi-engine and intercultural country. 
In recent years, the Ecuadorian people have demonstrated their disagreement with the policies of the regime and in unity with all sectors has developed actions to claim the righteous rights. 
However, the Government discredits the demands of the people and qualifies legitimate manifestations as violent actions, when it has actually been from the Government that has implemented a policy of violence in a progressive manner and that continues on escalation and result of it more than 400 Social fighters are imprisoned, prosecuted, processed by this regime. 
As a result of such qualifying said racism, violence systematically between citizens and the people, now aggressions are directly, so, yesterday September 23, 2015, in the morning The partner Lourdes Tiban, Assemblyman National, was a victim of a physical, verbal and psychological aggression near his office of the National Assembly of Ecuador, located in the La Alameda sector. 
Therefore, we demand immediately to Ecuadorian justice, the facts are clarified and with celleratively, the individuals who acted on these aggressions are identified. 
For such reasons, the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador - Conaie rejects in a frontly and categorical way the establishment of a culture and policy of violence from the Government and the Ecuadorian State, which is accepted and naturalized by society in general as an exercise Normal in the policy make 
We ratify that in a democratic country, human values, respect, humility, tolerance, difference, unity in the diversities of thought, criterion, religion, identities and cultures that have lived within this plurinational and intercultural state in search of the Sumak Kawsay - good live for all and all / Ecuadorians. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President of Conaie.  . 
