Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, June 12, 2017  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-CONAIE, after maintaining an extraordinary assembly at the base union on June 10 with the participation of more than 700 representations of the country's indigenous peoples and nationalities, decided to demand the immediate response to Amnesty's request and pardon presented on May 30 in favor of the 197 cases of the social fighters and human rights defenders and the nature of Ecuador. 
Amnesty's request made before the Government of Lenín Moreno is not a condition for possible dialogue, but it will be the real exhibition of political will of the regime of "Extended hands and open arms" said, Jorge Herrera, president of the organization. 
In addition, the list presented at the end of May is not the definitive, there will be more orders of amnesty for the long list of criminalized that left the regime of the Rafael Correa Former Speaker, highlighted. 
The national indigenous organization of Ecuador discussed points of interest for the country. 
The Conaie proposal against the national situation consisting of five thematic axes will be presented to society and at all instances of the State for its debate and implementation in public policies within the plurinational State. 
The presentation of the document will be done on Tuesday, July 4, 2017 together with representation of the authorities of the people and nationalities of Ecuador. 
Another of the points discussed was the realization of the Congress of the Organization. 
For the alternate policy preached by the current Governing Council of the CONAIe, the rumors of re-election of Jorge Herrera is ruled out to the presidency of the indigenous structure, Herrera asserted. 
The VI National Congress of the entity will be held on August 24, 25 and 26 in the province of Zamora Chinchipe as a sample of solidarity with all the population that suffers violence due to the presence of mining transnationals in the area. 
Conaie communication   Bulletin in PDF.  Resolutions of the Extraordinary Assembly of the Conaie made on June 10 at Base-Puyo Union  . 
