Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, December 22, 2016  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, against militarization in the territory of Shuar Nationality and the arrest of our partner Agustín Wachapá, president of the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar Peoples, FICSH, we express the following:  - The detention of partner Agustín Wachapá is arbitrary since he was apprehended without respecting him as an undigenous Shuar. 
In addition, he was beaten and denigrated, demonstrating the racism and violence of the State towards indigenous peoples. 
We demand the freedom of Agustín Wachapá and that of the 5 most prisoners over Nankints case. 
- Violence has an origin and is the action of the State to allow the passage of Chinese mining companies without free and informed prior consultation. 
The Government talks to comply with the rule of law, we precisely require that it complies with the rights of indigenous peoples and nationalities and the rights of nature that are enshrined in the Constitution and in international agreements (169-ILO Convention), which are also part of of the Constitution. 
- The government of Rafael Correa is pushing the armed forces to fulfill a paper to which we had never seen before, not even in times of dictatorship. 
The indigenous movement in the history of the country have maintained a relationship of respect with the armed forces. 
Even, many Shuar brothers fought in the war with Peru along with the armed forces to defend the Condor Coordillera, Territory today delivered to Chinese and Canadian mining companies. 
- We know that the armed forces would be willing to seek other outings to the conflict that does not include the repressive actions against the Ecuadorian people itself. 
This is demonstrated by what happened in Sarayaku, where there was a dialogue exit, but President Correa did not know and unauthetized causing more conflict and ratifying his arrogant and racist character. 
- President Correa is unable to find other exits to conflicts other than authoritarianism, violence and rights violation, which is leading the country to a serious confrontation situation. 
- The state of exception is unconstitutional to generate greater violence and conflict of those who intended to solve. 
It clearly shows that the government is willing to put at risk the stability of the country to guarantee Chinese mining companies their permanence and safety to extract resources and earn money. 
The capital about the human being. 
The military is not defending the security of the population, but that of transnational corporations that have large hectares of Ecuadorian territory as private property. 
- As Conaie, we ask for an exit to the conflict that does not include the militarization of the territory and society. 
The Government must hear the legitimate demands of the Indigena people, must respect our rights and the rights of nature. 
We demand that it stop the persecution and arbital detention of indigenous and peasants in Morona Santiago and throughout the country, only by the fact of defending their rights. 
- In recent days the CONAIE reiterated the order to the new UN Recident Coordinator to intervene within a commission to mediate the conflict. 
Likewise, we ordered the Catholic Church to intervene in this intermediary commission. 
We again ratify our willingness to seek an exit to this conflict and to emphasize the violence generated by a sequence of state shares and mining companies in the territories. 
We please the solidarity of Ecuadorian peoples and indigenous organizations, human rights of all Latin America and the world and we call on the international community to be attentive and vigilant of what happens in Ecuador especially with our sisters and siblings of Shuar Nationality whose territory, whose life and survival is in danger. 
#SSPUEBLOSHUAR.  By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  PDF Bulletin  . 
