Jorge Herrera, president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, participated in the press conference held on Monday, September 28, 2015 at the offices of the Achuar Nationality of Ecuador, Nae, and said he supported Bolívar Wasump and His Government Council who were elected in the Extraordinary Assembly on the 25th of this month, as spokespersons for nationality. 
Herrera indicated that the Governments have always tried to divide the indigenous movement, to the Conaie and have not achieved it and that this Government will not achieve it either. 
In addition, he rejected every form of manipulation towards the bases by the leaders who are being "servile to the government". 
He ratified that the struggle of the peoples and nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon continues. 
Bolívar Wasump, president of the NAE, announced the "official and legitimate resolutions of the extraordinary assembly" and rejected any division attempt that exists within organization. 
As the first resolution it is indicated in the document that "the presidents of the associations and trustees of the communities gathered in their IV Extraordinary Assembly decide to overthrow the LCO. 
Rubén Tsamaraint, current president of the NAE (until September 25, 2015), and Mr. 
Mario Wisum, coordinator of the NAE in the city of Macas, for having betrayed the ideological and political principles of the Achuar nationality of Ecuador "  The President of the NAE rejected the alleged resolutions taken by leaders who are supporters and members of the country alliance (case of Rubén Tsamaraint) in which they ask for "Command of the Police for the NAE offices in Puyo and Macas". 
Bolivar affirmed that the meeting executed him in a private house, "because they left the assembly" so it lacks legitimacy. 
In one of the resolutions he points out that "he ratifies and supports the government of the indigenous nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon, Conféde, headed by Mr. 
Franco Viteri "and emphasize that" the alleged Directing Council of Conféniae elected is unknown on September 15, 2015 ". 
. 
