Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, August 9, 2017  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-CONAIE extends a fraternal and combative greeting of brotherhood to all the peoples and indigenous nationalities of the world, especially the nationalities and peoples of Ecuador on this international day of indigenous peoples according to the General Assembly Decision of The United Nations. 
According to the UN, indigenous peoples are distributed in the world in more than 5000 different groups located in 90 countries and with approximately 7000 languages. 
The population of the originating peoples is 370 million people approximately, that is, more than 5% of the world's population. 
The United Nations Organization (UN) warned that ten years after the Declaration of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples still continue to suffer discrimination, poverty and violence. 
Therefore, we exhort the State of Ecuador to prevail the declared rights, the worldview of each people and nationality should be respected. 
You should leave the dispossession of the territories, respect the land and territories and leave the mining, oil and hydroelectric exploitation where the indigenous population inhabit, for which a change in the economic model plunder of the resources of nature towards a Economic model that allows us to live all human beings in what we call Sumak Kawsay, integral life with nature. 
In Ecuador, above all, the social exclusion of the more than 500 years must be repaired, and in particular the recoil in terms of law of indigenous peoples during the last 10 years of the badly called Citizen Revolution, reorienting the national policy of Faced with the true construction of the plurinational State, where the autonomy of the governments of indigenous peoples and nationalities is respected, giving rise to the birth of a plural democracy, inclusive and in which human rights can be fully exercised. 
As indigenous peoples and nationalities we will continue to stand out for the demand for compliance with our rights and seek a real transformation for the liberation of peoples. 
We call on the unity between towns in Ecuador and the world for the struggle in defense of our territories, rights and life itself. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
