Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, August 19, 2015  Before the events that occurred in the city of Macas, where Indigenous Shuar and Achuar companions have mobilized demanding a clear response from public authorities and the national government, we want to express the following:  - The demands of colleagues and companions Shuar and Achuar, are legitimate demands, several of them have been expressing for years through different Community, political, administrative and legal actions that have not been responded by the Government. 
Thus, the Indigenous Shuar communities and Achuar have opted to make measures in fact. 
- The Ecuadorian State has generated a scenario of violence in the South Amazon who has hit Shuar and Achuar communities strongly:  1. 
The permit of concession in Shuar territory, especially for Ecuacorient ECSA and ECSA Chinese mining companies that already shows the first signs of pollution in rivers that feed the communities and has generated the displacement of entire communities of their ancestral territory (San Marcos Community )  two. 
The Retreat of the Environmental License for the Macuma-Taisha Highway preventing the prefect of Shuar Marcelino Chumpi nationality to conclude a work required by the Achuar communities, as well as criminalization and constant aggression to this authority chosen by the communities and most of the population of Morona Santiago. 
3. 
The XI Oil Round that tries to dealership oil blocks in Community territory to transnational companies without prior consultation,  Four. 
The murder of three leaders Shuar José Tendetza, Freddy Taish, Bosco Wisuma without an answer of Ecuadorian justice,  These are just some of the Government actions that have generated a scenario in which the Shuar and Achuar people have had as the last exit the actions in fact to be heard and demand respect for their rights. 
Thus, the tension that is lived in Morona Santiago is the result of an institutionalized violence from the State to the Amazonian indigenous peoples, who have violated collective rights and put into vulnerability the lives of women, children, and indigenous men. 
The actions in fact instead of having a political and action response have had the use of the police force and military force, the latter disproportionately as well as unconstitutional. 
The presence of military in the territory of indigenous peoples, even before declaring the state of exception, is a provocation for the Shuar people and Achuar, historically, warrior peoples, as well as illegal since the presence of military in Community territory contravenes collective rights of the villages (art 57)  This militarization resulted in several moments of repression and clashes in bombing, Gualaquiza, Logroño, succeed and the arrest of several indigenous companions and now in Macas. 
On Sunday, August 16 when they were given the conditions for a confrontation that had had disastrous results for our communities, the leaders of the Nae, Nashe and FICS Federations, wisely decided to voluntarily retire from the road and go on a walk to Macas. 
This action was an obvious political sample of the vocation of our people and our leaders to find solutions. 
The Governor's response of Morona Santiago was the evasion of dialogue, while the armed forces militarized Macas. 
And the political response of the Minister of the Interior, José Serrano, was held responsible for the leaders of Conaie, Jorge Herrera and Conféniae, Franco Viteri, as well as the prefect of Morona Santiago, Marcelino Chumpi, for the aroused facts. 
These government responses only demonstrate their inability to understand the current and historical demands of the indigenous movement, as well as their lack of knowledge about the culture, wisdom, needs and proposals of indigenous peoples. 
It amazes us that these aggressions towards our leaders come from Minister Serrano, who worked closely with the same indigenous peoples that now criminalizes and represses. 
It is clear who causes and seeks outcomes that Shuar and Achuar people have never wanted. 
Since the regional and national leadership we promote the adoption of measures under the absolute and conscious decision of the peoples. 
No one has been forced to go out to the streets, nobody has been forced to decide or take action. 
It is the conscious people who are expressed by their own will, to defend themselves, fighting for their rights and their lives, from their territories and from the national level through unemployment and uprising throughout the country. 
Conaie  Confeniae  . 
