Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, November 22, 2016  Members of Shuar nationality expelled to the force of the area where it is planned to execute the Mining Project Panantza-San Carlos, in the canton San Juan Bosco, Parroquia Panantza, Provincia Morona Santiago, in charge of the mining company China Expococobre SA, EXCA They decided on Monday, November 21, 2016, return its ancestral territory. 
In August of this year, inhabitants of the community were evicted violently by the National Police of Ecuador and Military. 
As indicated in the communiqué issued by ecological action rejects that "the forced eviction of the Nankints community was the result of the abuse of authority by the Provincial Mayor of Morona Santiago who authorized the eviction over an area of 94 hectares. 
This expulsion is carried out without legal reason, because only 2 hectares were those that had been granted by sentence to the EXSA company. " 
The action made by Shuar nationality is legitimate. 
According to the reports of comuneros and comubers of the territory there is a strong mobilization of the police and military towards the Nankint community, which could decline in possible clashes between civil society. 
At this fact, the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie:  We categorically reject the invasion of the ancestral territories of indigenous peoples and nationalities and their delivered mining transnational companies. 
We support the legitimate decision that colleagues from the Denankintz community have taken to recover their ancestral territory. 
We demand the Ministry of Defense and the Interior refrain from performing an eviction and thus avoid a confrontation with violence. 
In this sense, we take responsibility for the national government of the event that may happen in the Nankintz community  We demand that the Government seek peaceful mechanisms to resolve these conflicts that occur in the community and also at the national level since the Government has used violence as the first option to resolve these conflicts. 
We summoned our bases so that they are on a maximum alert for events that may happen and mobilize massively to Nankintz Community,  We exhort citizenship in general to be a veedora of the facts that can be given by a violent eviction. 
The Conaie is declared in Permanent Assembly as well as its regional to analyze assess these difficult moments for which we are going through. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
