Puyo, August 8, 2015  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon Conféniae expresses its unconditional support for the process of mobilization that is carried out in the country, initiated with the march of the people that left on August 2 from Tundayme, Zamora Chinchipe and travels the provinces of the South and Centro From the country to Quito, claiming the demands of the bases against the Mega Mining in the Cordillera del Cóndor. 
As confenched, we have actively participated from the beginning of the walk, even more when our bases have been added, especially the Shuar nationality of Zamora Chinchipe, as well as delegations of young people from the nationalities of the provinces of Napo, Pastaza and Morona Santiago. 
During the tour, a community security team of Kichwa and Shuar nationalities leads the demonstration with its spears, safeguarding our brothers. 
As an organic regional of the CONAIE, we ratify our support for the call to indigenous uprising to begin in the territories on August 10 and the national unemployment of the people on August 13. 
In this regard, we are preparing different actions in the Amazon, mainly in the provinces of Pastaza, Morona Santiago, Zamora Chinchipe. 
The decision to participate is an organic resolution of the Annual Ordinary Assembly of the Conaie of August 17 and 18, taken with full consciousness and by the clamor of our bases, compared to which the leadership can not deviate from the popular will. 
We call to act with coherence by strengthening the indigenous movement and without responding to personal or particular interests to the detriment of the aspirations of our bases, because sooner or later the bases and future generations would demand explanations and question all attitude contrary to their legitimate interests. 
With the historical weight of our struggle inheritance as ancestral peoples and historical organizations, we affirm the legitimacy of indigenous uprising that in 1990 positioned the indigenous movement as a leading actor of Ecuador and Latin America, and is currently maintained as a genuine measure of enforceability of the Rights, how many are trampled by the Governments of Turn. 
We demand a state at the service of the people and not one in favor of the economic interests of companies, banks, multinationals and the duty bureaucracy. 
We also make a call to the uprising of the critical political consciousness of our people, to demand rectifications to the country's alliance government in view of the setbacks in the rights of indigenous peoples, workers and social sectors, evidenced in several fields such as bilingual education, Extractivism and others. 
It is necessary an assessment and deep criticism at the eight years of the project of the citizen revolution, overcoming demagogic and clientelian practices that have not been saved and who maintain the people mobilized protesting their rights. 
. 
