Through the following communiqué the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon, Confédae, rejects the search for community radio, the voice of Arutam, which was given today, Friday, January 27. 
Confix against Arutam's Radio Voice, attached to freedom of expression and militarization in Morona Santiago  Puyo, January 27, 2017  The Government Council of Confénia rejects the search for Community radio The voice of Arutam carried out by more than 100 police officers today, taking their equipment and attempting against the integrity of the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar-FICSH centers. 
The prepotent act by the Public Force constitutes a very serious attack against freedom of expression that boosts the right to inform on the part of the Community media transgressing the same constitution of the State. 
It is the second occasion that is attentive to the goods of the Shuar people, because the headquarters was already raided in the month of December during the unfair detention of the leader of the FICSH, Agustín Wachapá. 
The Shuar people are permanently violated in their legitimate rights by a State that demonstrates its incapacity to resolve the conflicts generated by himself by militarizing the territories of nationalities. 
It is confirmed that the Government does not intend to find outputs to the conflict and only responds with arrogance and abuse of authority against a people who struggle and defends the territory, its source of life, as evidenced by the following facts:  It does not put into debate the mining problem that afflicts the Amazon and only responds with more militarization  A state of exception is decreed that violent rights to the people and that far from viable outputs deepens the existing crisis. 
It is pursued, imprisive, judicializes and criminalizes Leaders and Amazonian leaders for defending the interests of their bases. 
It is pale and attentive against the goods and heritage of organizations in a prepotent manner. 
Conféniae has stressed the need to discuss the mining issue as a first step to understand the bottom causes generated by the conflict in the southern center of the Amazon. 
Likewise, we have urged the search for solutions without our call has been heard by the Ecuadorian government. 
We emphasize that the conflict is deepened without such solutions thereto, therefore, the facts that come from the militarization of the territory are of absolute responsibility and generated by the Government on a shift. 
We urge national and international organizations to denounce all levels the violation of rights that occur in Ecuador raising a global voice of rejection and protest against the facts committed by the Government against the Shuar people. 
At this time helicopters fly over the communities, hundreds of military enter the territory, the police say the goods of the Shuar people, the judicial function pursues the leaders. 
This is the reality that happens in Morona Santiago and that Arutam's radio voices came communicating why today is attentive against the mission so that this means was created, an act of absolute arrogance that deserves the repudiation of all the Ecuadorian people. 
Governing Council of Conféniae  . 
