The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon, Conféniae, alerted this morning, Friday, December 16, 2016, to the national and international community to be attentive to the presence of the Public Force of Ecuador equipped with "Belic Armament", "Tank of war "and other military appliances for repression and attack. 
Indigenous organizations have called on international mediation to seek peaceful outings before the conflict that has generated by Chinese mining presence in Panantza, Nankints. 
That as a consequence of the irresponsibility of the Government to give exits to the problems, it brought to the shock of the people against the town, according to organizations. 
In addition, they demand the derogatory to the state of exception. 
La Conaie and Confeniae sent letters to the Joint Command of the Armed Forces, Ministry of Defense, Ministry of the Interior and the Ombudsman on November 22 to seek dialogue departures, while by the Government deepened the militarization of the Nankints community, San Juan Bosco 
So the organizations had pointed out that "the militarization of Shuar territory causes greater violence and human rights violations. 
Conaie demands to cease to terror imposed by FFA operations in Nankints, "but never received answers from the government, according to spokesmen. 
Conféniae  Communicated to the national and international community before imminent retaliation to the Shuar people with war weapons  In the morning hours he could know about the transfer of war tanks at the height of the side passage of Puyo with presumable destination to #moronasantiago. 
We argue the national and international community before these facts and again we urge the national government to seek outputs to the serious conflict generated by the militarization of the indigenous territories, whose background is in the servile delivery of our territories to the transnationals to favor the mega mining. 
The Ecuadorian government will be solely responsible for what came to occur because the lives of our brothers are in danger. 
We call national and international public, means of communication, social organizations, human rights agencies and the community in general to denounce the intentions of a government that instead of finding solutions responds with a military shield of unpredictable consequences. 
Taking advantage of the state of emergency to send tanks of war against comuneros is an unprecedented, violent and reckless act that must stop immediately. 
We demand the immediate demilitarization of #nankints and we raised vigorously worldwide the so-called #SSPUEBLOSHUAR  Governing Council of Conféniae  . 
