From multiple corners of the Amazon, delegations of Amazonians from the different nationalities, we have been an active part of the Great Day of Mobilization of the Ecuadorian people. 
We have been firm with our approaches since August 2 in Tundayme, Zamora Chinchipe and at the beginning of the Levailable in the AMONZON on August 9 and 10 in Macuma, Morona Santiago, as well as August 13 during the National Arrival in the Provinces Amazonians and the city of Quito, where we join with a nourishment of 150 men and women Kichwas from Sarayaku and Shuar to the streets of the capital. 
We have experienced the repression of a government that makes deaf ears to its constituents and responds with irony, threats, arrogance and repression. 
The popular clamor was heard in the streets but with the authoritarianism that characterizes this government was mobilized to the National Police and the Armed Forces to undermine the legitimate voice of those who defend human rights and nature. 
The militarization of the Amazon South Centro is the response that gives power to our call to build a fairer society as well as the arrest of 63 colleagues at the national level. 
The Amazon has been present, firm and determined by supporting the national unemployment and we remain in the capital of Ecuador until our legitimate demands are heard. 
That is why we make a call to our bases:  - To remain firm in this indefinite national unemployment, until our proposals are heard, errors and deviations in government political management are rectified, attitudes from the first president are deponted and a true environment for the debate and discussion is generated A solution for the problem that afflicts the Ecuadorians. 
- To maintain the different measures that our bases sustain in their territories, especially the Amazonian South Center from Pastaza to Zamora Chinchipe, in strict attachment to the mandates taken on Macume on August 9 expressing the faithful demand for Shuar Bases and Achuar by The defense of its territories. 
- As I condemn at all times we have respected the decisions that our bases have taken according to their reality and particularities in each Amazon province. 
We have not forced anyone to go out to the streets, and that decision has been subject to consensus that each of the subsidiary federations have generated. 
We emphasize that we do not owe to any individual interest and are acting organically as Amazonian Regional de la Conaie, by the mandate that its bases expressed on July 17 and 18 at the Ordinary Assembly of Salasaca. 
The Confénia denounces the provocation and police and military repression of the government against the Ecuadorian people. 
It is a repudable act that the National Police is in public hospitals, stopping the injured products of the confrontation with the same police; This is not conceived in a democratic state where a health institution is to serve the people and not to serve as a police retainer. 
We denounce the treatment given to our detained partners, many of which have been beaten and mistreated after their detention, as well as affecting physically, emotionally and psychologically their integrity as has happened in the case of the partner Margoth Escobar of 61 years. 
Those who know their example and trajectory of struggle, we totally repudiate the abuses committed by the police against them. 
We take responsibility for the Ecuadorian government for the integrity of all partners detained in all the provinces of our country, as well as the thousands of bases mobilized in the provinces of Pastaza, Morona Santiago and Zamora Chinchipe. 
As conferred, we will remain firm in the city of Quito and in our territories by fighting with the people until the platform of demands that we have collectively built with different social movements of the country and asking for the release of detainees. 
Franco Viteri  President de Confeniae  . 
