Puyo, July 6, 2015  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon Conféniae, ante the political situation that the country lives and in front of the call to dialogue by the national government, expresses the following. 
During the last weeks, the Ecuadorian people have expressed its rejection of the policy of the Government of Rafael Correa, which is in a process of delegitimitation before which it calls on the national dialogue, a situation that deserves the following statements:  End clear that we do not support and we do not agree with the intentions of the right to take advantage of the dissatisfaction of the Ecuadorian people. 
We recognize that it is only a struggle of powers between different fractions of the bourgeoisie (the belt versus La de Lasso, Nebot and others) where the main interest is to maintain and / or recover the control of political and economic power. 
That is, it is a power dispute between themselves. 
Indigenous peoples and social sectors fight for a true plurinational state and we do not support the governments of shift that violate and run the rights of the Ecuadorian people and in particular indigenous peoples. 
The current call to dialogue has no formality and responds to a hurried interest to stop popular discontent. 
The historical organizations of nationalities are not emergency rim and we will not be used. 
There are no conditions for a dialogue when there is no confidence, good faith, discipline, institutional respect, since all that is being trampled by the belt government. 
Accepting that call to the dialogue involves being used, manipulated and lend us for a supposed support to the government that needs it desperately for a political repositioning of the regime. 
We must prepare for the outcome of the current crisis without affecting our unit and organicity. 
Each organization has to refine your plan of life, reflect on what is happening and what we are living. 
Leaders must be formed, studying and generating a culture of information, constructive criticism and proactive attitudes within our assemblies in making decisions because the plurinational status is constructed from the bottom up, from the bases. 
Meanwhile, governments intend to maintain their control over society as it is now happening with a vertical and tax policy from top to bottom, violating the rights of constituents that are all the Ecuadorian people. 
Therefore the organizations and the whole of our people are called to generate this change acting with coherence, transparency, plurality, respecting the consensus and moving away from the opportunistic practices and attitudes of the current regime, preventing the leaders to be manipulated by our Own brothers for their particular interests, as much as great exist in our institutions and organizations. 
Before the expressed confidence fulfills its guiding mission respecting the autonomy and free determination of nationalities and encourages its 22-grassroots organizations belonging to the 11 Amazonian nationalities to strengthen doors in, which does not mean that they break the institutional organic order Indigenous and guiding principles of our nationalities. 
As conferred, we will stay vigilant before the events that are presented in our country and the call is to strengthen the organization in the upcoming assemblies and events of our fight agenda. 
The indigenous peoples have the right to protest and exercise resistance when our rights are running over!  Franco Viteri Gualinga. 
President de Confeniae  Sarayaku Runa  . 
