Press release  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, met at its headquarters located in Quito (Av. 
Granados E10 - 275 and AV 6 December) with the Base Organizations that make up the Provincial, Third Degree and Regional: Conféniae (Amazon), ECUARUNARI (Sierra) and Conaice (Costa) this November 17 in which they dealt with on the Economic and social crisis by which the country is going through and on the package of constitutional amendments (reform to 16 articles of the Constitution of Ecuador). 
After an extensive debate the bases decided that they are in conditions to activate the indigenous and popular uprising for the day they treat the constitutional amendments. 
Jorge Herrera, president of the Conaie, recalled that the uprising still remains and that it will be to give continuity with the actions in fact in the next month. 
For Herrera, the rejection of the amendments is not only by indefinite re-election, but throughout the package. 
Because there are central points that contemplates this correction to the Magna Charter that is not considered, points as the role of the armed forces, the labor issue, the privatization of communication within the category of the public and other central points. 
The representatives of the Ecuadorian Amazon pointed out that there is a clear interference by the Government, a country Alliance Group, in indigenous organizations. 
For this reason, they denounced the rejection of the appointments granted by the Undersecretariat of Peoples and Nationalities of the National Secretariat of Policy Management (SNGP). 
Also, they indicated rejection of the implementation of open-pit mining. 
Franco Viteri, president Conféniae, indicated that they are in a position to activate the uprising unanimously. 
Carlos Pérez, president Ecuarunari, stressed that the struggle is not only by indefinite re-election, but throughout the package. 
Representatives of the Sierra organizations indicated not to agree with the closure of community schools, the high cost of life, so they are hard to go out to the streets. 
The representative of the Ecuadorian coast stated that they build an agenda, because the President of ConaICe was elected recently, but that there is discomfort for government policies in the area. 
Conaie communication  . 
