Press release  Five years have passed since the Constitutional Court will go into its judgment No. 
001-10-SIN-CC, numeral 2 and 3 that "pre-legislative consultation is substantial and non-formal nature" and that "all mining activity that is intended to be carried out in the territories of communities, peoples and indigenous nationalities, Afro-owners and Montubias, in all its phases, from the publication of this Judgment, should be submitted to the prior consultation process established in Article 57, numeral 7 of the Constitution, in accordance with the rules established by this Court, until the National Assembly issues the corresponding law ". 
This ruling was the result of the actions of unconstitutionality that were introduced against the Mining Law in 2009, which, despite not declaring it unconstitutional, left those obligations in consultation with indigenous peoples and communities established. 
Nothing established by the Constitutional Court on March 18, 2010 has been met. 
The Organic Law that the National Assembly should approve to develop the right to prior consultation in indigenous peoples and nationalities to date does not exist. 
On the contrary, the Legislative Board of Directors (CAL) of the Assembly generated a text called "Instructional for the application of the pre-legislative consultation for the collective rights of the Communis, Communities, Peoples and Indigenous Nationalities" (the instructions). 
The Constitution indicates that only through organic laws, not any law, it is possible to develop the content of rights (art. 
133 Nr. 
2 CRE[1]). 
The organic laws, by their hierarchy, are the second most important rules in the Ecuadorian legal system, after the Constitution and international human rights treaties. 
Therefore, it is inadmissible that an instructional, who does not even reach ordinary law, less from organic, regulate the exercise of collective rights to prior, free and informed consultation and pre-legislative consultation. 
For a regulatory text to have an ordinary law, the approval of the absolute majority of assembly is required [2]; But the instruction was issued only by one of the ASSEMBLE: Lime; And, once again, without consulting indigenous peoples and nationalities. 
On the other hand, through the Executive Decree No. 
1247 In 2012, the "Regulation for the implementation of free and informed prior consultation was issued in the bidding and allocation process and blocking of hydrocarbons". 
Likewise, this normative body is not an organic law or was carried out in consultation with the holders of collective rights: indigenous peoples and nationalities. 
The right to consultation was guaranteed in the 1998 Magna Carta that established: "The State will recognize and guarantee indigenous peoples, in accordance with this Constitution and the Law, respect for public order and human rights, the following collective rights (…) 5. 
Be consulted on plans and programs of prospecting and exploitation of non-renewable resources that are in their lands and that may affect them environmentally or culturally; Participate in the benefits that these projects report, as soon as possible and receive compensation for the socio-environmental losses that cause them. " 
This right is recommended again on September 28, 2008, with the approval of the new Constitution that indicates in its Article 57, numeral 7 that: "It is recognized and guaranteed to the Communis, Communities, Peoples and Indigenous Nationalities, in accordance with The Constitution and with pacts, agreements, statements and other international human rights instruments, the following collective rights: (...) Previous, free and informed consultation, within a reasonable time, on prospecting plans and programs, exploitation and commercialization of non-renewable resources that are in their lands and that may affect them environmentally or culturally; Participate in the benefits that these projects report and receive compensation for the social, cultural and environmental damages caused by them. 
The consultation that must be carried out by the competent authorities will be mandatory and timely. 
If the consent of the Community consulted is not obtained, it will proceed according to the Constitution and the Law. " 
Although the right to prior consultation is recognized for 17 years, 1998, it is not fulfilled. 
In 2012, the first large-scale mining contract was signed "Mining Project" Mirador "between Ecuadorian State and Ecuacoriento S. 
A. 
(ECSA) For a period of 30 years, which can be renewable. 
This, without carrying out the due process of consultation to the indigenous communities that are located in the area of incidence, in El Canton El Pangui, Province of Zamora Chinchipe. 
The consultation process has not been respected for the approval of several laws that contemplate the rights of indigenous peoples, communes and nationalities. 
For example, as of May 15, 2013, the Executive sent a draft amending law to the Mining Act to the National Assembly, with the character of urgent economic (the Assembly only has 30 days for its approval) bill that After being treated by the Commission on the Economic and Tax Regime of the National Assembly, it was approved at the Plenary of the National Assembly. 
Another law that was approved using the pre-legislative consultation instructions was the Organic Law of Water Resources, Uses and Province of Water approved on June 24, 2014 by the Plenary of the Assembly. 
In June 2015, the National Assembly through the Food Sovereignty Commission repeats the scenario, a pre-legislative consultation process is carried out to consult three presumably conflicting themes of the Law on Rural Lands and Ancestral Territories. 
This time the bases of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE) decides not to participate due to the experience lived both in the Minas Law and the Water Law, since a prior consultation is not carried out, free and informed as recognized The Constitution, and also, continues to be processed without taking into consideration the judgment of the Constitutional Court. 
To date, the President of the Assembly, Gabriel Rivadeneira is expected, convene the plenary to discuss the Land Law project in the second debate. 
Frozen projects in the Assembly  According to the web portal of the legislative power to date there are 5 bills:  - On July 11, 2010, the Assemblyman Gerónimo Yalema de Pachakútik presented the Organic Law of Consultations of Communisons, Communities, Peoples and Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador. 
The Lime did not qualify the proposal. 
- On March 26, 2012, Assemblyman Gerónimo Yalema de Pachakútik presented the Organic Law of Consultations of Communisons, Communities, Peoples and Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador. 
The Cal qualified the proposal and is found in the first debate. 
- On April 24, 2012, the MPIAy Murrum Framework Legislator presented the Organic Act Legislative Reference Project to Communis Services, Communities, Peoples and Indigenous Nationalities, Montubias and Afro-Mountains. 
The Cal qualified the proposal and is found in the first debate. 
- On May 16, 2012, Assemblyman María Molina Crespo del Movement Himevil and Sovereign presented the draft organic law of pre-legislative consultation to communes, communities, peoples and indigenous nationalities. 
The Cal qualified the proposal and is found in the first debate. 
- On October 22, 2014, Pachakútik's Magali Orellana legislator presented the Organic Law of Consultation prior to communes, communities, peoples and indigenous nationalities. 
The Cal qualified the proposal. 
Now, the CONAIE interposes action of non-compliance with the Constitutional Court to demand that those unfulfilled provisions of the court itself come true. 
That is, that a law is issued, which should be organic and of course in consultation with indigenous communities, to progressively regulate their collective rights to be consulted. 
In addition, it is requested that all any approval of laws that may affect their rights are suspended, while not compliant with the court judgment. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  [1] Art. 
133 CRE. 
- The laws will be organic and ordinary. 
They will be organic laws:  2 those that regulate the exercise of constitutional rights and guarantees. 
[2]Art. 
133 Penultimate Speaker of CRE  Review photograph of the audience: https: // www. 
flickr. 
COM / GP / CONAIECOMUNICATION / R7NK08  Jorge Herrerasobre The audience: https: // www. 
youtube. 
com/watch?v=4N6KPOygj0w&feature=youtu. 
be
. 
