The Indigenous Council of Central America through a public pronouncement made on December 26, 2016, called the Government of Ecuador to respect the international treaties of indigenous peoples. 
This due to militarization and persecution against Shuar Leaders who oppose open-pit mining at the Condor Coordillera, Nankint community located in the Amazonian province of Morona Santiago. 
In the section he points out that "the vision of development from the thought of indigenous peoples is oriented to the search for spiritual and material development, from self-determination, based on its own differentiated culture and identity, considering development as a Multidimensional and cyclic road, for the benefit of the common unit ". 
In addition, the Indian Council of Central America ratifies its concern when the Government aims to "impose external agendas to the detriment not only of Mother Earth, but, of life itself". 
So they affirm that it is necessary that "the Government of Ecuador complies with the national and international legal framework adopted by the State to generate a process of dialogue and understanding under the Light of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and The same constitution of Ecuador ". 
Finally, they announced the points to which they institute as an indigenous council of Central America to the Government of Ecuador:  • Install a dialogue table based on the international legal framework, as well as national legislation on indigenous peoples' rights. 
• Take the art into account. 
10 of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. 
• Take the art into account. 
32 Subparagraph 2: "States will celebrate consultation and cooperate in good faith with indigenous peoples interested in conducting their own representative institutions in order to obtain their free and informed consent before approved any project that affects their lands or territories and other resources , particularly in relation to the development, use or exploitation of mineral, water or other resources "  Original source: here  . 
