D. 
M. 
Quito, November 25, 2019   The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, joins all of us who raise their voice against the multiple forms of violence and oppression exercised against women, this violence is the most widespread, persistent and devastating; Indigenous women, we join the struggle of women Montubias, Afro Ecuadorian, mestizas and peasants in this historical and permanent claim. 
Throughout the History, the social rights and demands have acquired them through social struggle, remember Rosa Uquillas, Lidia Herrera, the "Black" Julia in the days of November 15, 1922, the Hiking of Dolores Cacuango to Carondelet to demand Claims for the workers and indigenous sector, Mama Transit Tranconia and its struggle for education through clandestine schools for indigenous children and peasants. 
Thus, history demonstrates the fundamental role of women in social struggles, as well as the historical need to continue along the way of organization and mobilization by a better world and without violence. 
38 years ago at the first Latin American and Caribbean feminist encounter, held in Bogotá-Colombia, declared on November 25 as the day of nonviolence against women, which was ratified by the UN General Assembly in 1999. 
This date was chosen in homage to the three Sisters Mirabal of Dominican Republic, tortured and cruelly murdered by Trujillo's dictatorship in 1960, a fact that unleashed the anger of the people and months after the dictatorship was overthrown that for 30 years of this Central American country. 
According to UN data, 70% of women in the world suffer some type of violence, in Ecuador, 6 out of 10 women has suffered gender violence and 59% of victims are indigenous; What poses a deep reflection on the rights of all women so that they can develop on equal terms in social, economic, cultural, educational, affective and political spheres. 
For all women violated by the Public Force at the National Arrival of October, by all the women violated this year in the fight against extractivism, the right to life and respect for prior consultation, free and informed, by all Women who are now unfairly judicialized to defend their territories, to administer indigenous justice, by all the women victims of femicides and disappearances, by all women victims of sexual violence, for all mothers and wives victims of intrafamily violence, by all women Victims of exclusion and invisibilization in labor, organizational, educational spaces, together we will continue in the struggle to move towards development based on equality of all and all. 
For the Governing Council:  Jaime Vargas.  President Conaie.  Luisa Lozano.  Female  . 
