D. 
M. 
, Quito, September 05, 2020  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, by commemorating every September 5 since 1983, the international day of indigenous woman ", in memory of Bartolina Sisa, warrior Aymara who fought against domination and colonial oppression, greets Indigenous women for their tenacity and resistance, for their struggle for life, territories and justice. 
This day constitutes a tribute to thousands of women who, like Bartolina Sisa, fought and fight against discrimination and abuse throughout history, at which they endure historical memory and the fight against social, economic and cultural exclusion. 
Women in the different conference days sustained throughout history, have been those who are put in the first row to battle against inequity, inequality, exploitation and oppression promoted by the repressive devices of the State; Thus, the social strength of women and men are combined in harmony and complementarity in the search for a real transformation of social structures. 
In the pandemic, the abandonment of the State was palpated more vulnerable and indigenous territories, and in this context, indigenous women fulfill a fundamental role safeguarding the lives of their inhabitants, their family, together with their peers, from each Organizational space, to sustain the social and economic crisis. 
The struggle for the liberation and transformation of the capitalist and patriarchal system, as well as the defense of rights is comprehensive, we questioned the declaration of several sectors of the right and conservatives so that the organic health code (COS), approved by the Assembly National, be it vetoed by the President of the Republic; Rights must be respected and recognized in the law, because health is not veined, defends itself. 
The approved COS guarantees rights in public health and integrates certain legitimate demands promoted by indigenous women, Afros, peasants, mestizas, Montubias, who have fought for decades for their human right to health and medical care without prejudice, without discrimination and without violence. 
In Ecuador we want a state that really guarantees our rights to a life free of violence, which does not hide its innoperation, nor corruption and prioritize safeguarding women's lives. 
The women of Ecuador want to be free to decide on our body, free to build our project of life, we want an equitable world, where our labor rights, cultural, civil and political are guaranteed  We commemorate this September 5 with great indignation, rage, impotence, nostalgia, because the Ecuadorian State and society continues to trample, discriminating, pursuing, murdering, mutilating, imprisoning, intimidating, leaving aside all rights achieved for years of struggle . 
Indigenous women keep raising the word demanding justice to live with dignity. 
We demand education, health, justice, work, our struggle and resistance follows by political and social inequality, respecting our territories, our Mother Earth is part of our life. 
We commemorate all our breasts that are no longer and let out this way of struggle and to all that we continue to fight in defense of our rights. 
Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  Luisa Lozano.  Female  . 
