D. 
M. 
Quito, August 9, 2020  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie extends a fraternal and combative greeting of brotherhood to all the indigenous peoples and nationalities of Ecuador and the world, in the commemoration of the International Day of Indigenous Peoples according to the United Nations Decision since 1994, is Say, 26 years ago in which the states delve the gaps to exercise our rights and the dispossession of capitalism threatens us. 
They are more than 476 million indigenous peoples in the world, who have mostly beaten by the Covid-19 pandemic, which this day is not of celebration but of strong denunciation for the abandonment of States to meet the health emergency in The indigenous communities and serve to insist on the spaces of debate and international pressure such as the UN and more agencies, for respect for indigenous rights, self-determination, the conservation of their lands, territories and natural resources, to a life Dignify and access to health systems in adequate conditions. 
In Ecuador, the health emergency accentuated the violation of our rights and day by day we are witnesses that the capital and the accumulation of profits from the groups of economic power is over the life and health of the Ecuadorians, for the Government the pandemic was the opportunity to radicalize the neoliberal agenda, so they imposed anti-elimination laws and expansion of the predatory extractivist model in our indigenous territories, in this context, the economic crisis whose impact falls on the most vulnerable field-city sectors, for this, we say that The fight goes because it goes. 
While authorities, ministers and politicians drown in corruption and overprices, social - popular organizations, community governments and indigenous movement are the first line of resistance against pandemic and state absence, generating specific solutions: strengthening of the marketing channels of the countryside, fair trade to face the speculation of prices in the hands of intermediaries, humanitarian exchanges, burkeys and popular markets, ancestral medicine as a complement to health, communication campaigns in originating languages, control of our territories, self-management and social care - humanitarian. 
Indigenous peoples suffer a double threat to their survival: the Covid-19 and absence of the State. 
We do not want symbolic or rhetorical awards, we want the conditions to conserve our culture, wisdom, territories and preserve nature, we want governments to attend to concrete results our legitimate demands to exercise our rights, we want real policies with a guarantee of sovereignty of the territories to originating peoples, indigenous nationalities and Afro. 
Today, August 9, 2020, is one more year of commemoration and all time of resistance, is a health emergency and at the same time indigenous emergency, nothing to celebrate, a lot to fight. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
