Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, December 14, 2016  By starting the conflict in the Shuar territory of #Nankint, since the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador Conae and Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon confented, we noted that the militarization would generate violence. 
On November 22, we request the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defense, to the Joint Command of the FFA and the Ombudsman a high violence and the militarization to precautionary the life of all those involved and build an exit dialogue to the conflict. 
The State did not listen. 
The fact that it has escalated violence in Nankints, product of the invasion of indigenous territories by a Chinese transnational, is the responsibility of the State that does not have the ability to listen, dialogue and resolve conflicts. 
We are regretting the loss of human lives for the government's insistence to move forward on the exploitation of natural resources trampling the constitutional rights of indigenous Ecuadorian citizens, and in putting police and military to precautionary interests of transnational companies. 
It is a conflict generated and deepened by the State by not conducting prior consultation, by unconstitutionally militarized indigenous territories, and not listening to the proposals for a dialogue solution raised by the organizations and actors directly involved in the conflict. 
We insisted that until last August the Nankints community was in dialogues with different governmental bodies to reach an agreement and the possibility of a prior, free and informed consultation in accordance with the law, talk that was interrupted by the violent eviction of Shuar families in the hands of the same public force and the invasion of their territory by the company China Expococobres SA, EXSA. 
As an exit that generates more tension in the area, it has just been declared state of the exception in the province of Morona Santiago, a situation that ratifies the condition of vulnerability of the rights of peoples that are resisting the dispossession, and the intentionality of the State to advance in The militaristic offensive. 
It generates the necessary conditions for a massive process of persecution and criminalization of the protest and endangers the guarantee of the constitutional rights of the population of Morona Santiago. 
We reiterate our order to human rights organizations at the national and international level to collaborate in cautioning the rights, life and integrity of Shuar's comuner and of all those involved in this situation, and we call for the solidarity of citizens, for Require demilitarization and cessation to violent actions that go for the benefit of Chinese companies. 
Government advice of Conaie and Conféniae   Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.   Marlon Vargas.  President Confédae.   Bulletin in PDF.  . 
