The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONEIE), the Regional Human Rights Advisory Foundation (INDRH) and the Ecumenical Commission on Human Rights (CEDhu) will participate in the public thematic audience "Complaints of violence and harassment against human rights defenders In Ecuador "to be held this July 7, 2017, at 10:45, in the city of Lima, Peru, within the framework of the session 163 of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR). 
The information that will be presented at this hearing seeks to show the link between the absence of a public policy of protection for human rights defenders who prevent harassment and threats in their activities and protect them when they happen; The lack of due diligence in the investigations that are carried out, especially from the prosecution, and that they leave these cases in impunity, and; The state criminalization and persecution response that the same state exercises against mobilization and resistance actions and that currently means 197 collective, territorial and nature defenders processed criminally. 
Among the cases presented are included cases of the Truth Commission, aggressions and repressions against peaceful demonstrations and violent deaths from Shuar Indigenous Leaders, including José Isidro Tendetza Antún, killed in December 2014. 
We consider relevance this space of dialogue before IACHR as a possibility to strengthen the construction of a democratic State that guarantees the political participation of social leaders and human rights defenders and nature in aspical and safe environments. 
Likewise, we are at expectation of whether the Ecuadorian state will resume its presence before the IACHR. 
At the audience they will intervene:  Jorge Herrera, president of CONEIE;  Francisco Hurtado Caicedo, CEDhu legal advisor, and;  Harold Burbano, Inredh's lawyer. 
During the audience, a video that records the testimonies of human rights defenders harassed and threatened in Ecuador will be presented. 
The video will be hanged on the YouTube accounts of the organizations. 
The public thematic audience is broadcast live by: http: // bit. 
Lee / Leave  . 
