Pensa Bulletin  Puyo, August 10, 2015  Since the early hours of Saturday, August 8, the bases of the Shuar and Achuar nationalities of Ecuador are mobilized from the jungle, from the Canton Taisha, several hours on foot on foot crossing the lush vegetation of the Trans Kutuku mountain range, in the Province of Morona Santiago, motivated by the call to the eighth Convention of the Inter Federation Committee that brings together the Shuar and Achuar Federations of Morona Santiago Nae, Nashe, FICSH. 
This region of the country is one of the most biodiverse and preserved, being its defense one of the main points in the fight agenda of the Shuar nationalities and Achuar of the Amazon South Center. 
With Chonta spears in the hands, painted her face with Karawira, adorned with Tawasap, men and women gathered at the Parish Macuma. 
This event meant the beginning at the level of the Amazon of the great indigenous uprising summoned by the Conaie, heading to the national unemployment of the town provided for this August 13. 
Firmly, the resolutions taken in the Convention are clear and define the energetic nature of the bases: rejection of oil and mining extraction in the Amazon, unconditional support to the survey and national unemployment, no dialogue with the national government. 
The decision adopted has the legitimate support of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon Confédae whose president, Franco Viteri, remained in the area during the course of the day and announcement at a press conference this August 10 the official so-called Rising . 
In the course of the next few hours the bases of the NASHE, NAE and FICSH will be present at the level of the province, region and country to raise its approaches around extractive activity in its territories, especially against the eleventeava round of bidding Oil that promotes the Ecuadorian state. 
Meanwhile in the province of Pastaza, the delegation of Sarayaku that will be added to the survey and national unemployment is also mobilized in canoe from the Bobonaza basin, in the low jungles, together with men, women and their WiO security group. 
The march of the South, which was born in the Amazon at the Tundayme parish, Cordillera del Cóndor, is the heart of this uprising and positions the central demand of Shuar, mestizas and peasants from the south of the Amazon against the Mega Mining. 
The call to uprising and national unemployment is not just a struggle of the indigenous movement. 
Different social sectors of the Amazon region have already made public their adhesion and solidarity with the measures adopted. 
They are foreseen in the next few days, seedlings and different events in the cities of Puyo, Macas, Zamora and Coca, which will converge towards the great national unemployment of the town on August 13 at the national level. 
Communication Confeniae  . 
