The Governing Council of the Shuar Arutam people issued on January 4, 2017, a letter explaining its reasons why they defend the Shuar territory. 
The letter starts by expressing that the Shuar people have "passed through very dangerous days (...) and those days have not finished and are probably only the beginning of a great territorial dispute." 
In the letter it is ratified that the government is the one who has generated the conflict. 
They remember the contribution that Shuar people have done for the country during the war of Cenepa against Peru. 
That is why they affirm that there is a fear that "the violence and strength of the government ends up destroying our house, you home, the house of the world." 
But above all, they cite the danger that exists in the area on the presence of mining projects. 
We share full letter below:  Shuar Arutam village: Letter to the country and the world  Ministerial Agreement 255-07. 
SEP-2016.  Somewhere in the Cordillera del Cóndor 04-01-2017  To my Shuar brothers, the Amazonian indigenous and Andes, the men and women of Ecuador and the world. 
How many of you know, we have gone through very dangerous days for our people and those days have not finished and are probably only the beginning of a great territorial dispute that has generated the national government against the Shuar Arutam people. 
Our jungle has been dyed with tears, anguish and blood and trails and paths that we previously transited in peace now have become unsafe and dangerous. 
Almost 30 years have passed when the Ecuadorians spoke of us as the warriors of the Cenepa, defenders of Ecuador, which we belong. 
But now it is necessary that by our own voice you know who we are, because nobody has asked us but have spoken to our name: the government, poorly or intentional social and political leaders. 
We were born here in this immense jungle of the Cordillera del Cóndor and the banks of the Zamora River and the Santiago. 
We did not know barbed wire or privately owned. 
The State stated that they were landslides and organized the colonization of our lands, with the same decision and self-agency of any colonizer. 
When the settlers came to this earth, we received them well, because we knew that they were poor and endeavored people who sought an opportunity in their lives. 
From one day to the next, great land extensions no longer belonged to us since they had been written on behalf of people who even have ever met. 
Since the 1960s, we had to create the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar Centers (FICSH) that we say until now our mother so that the State recognizes us what was always ours, the territory, our spaces of life and our culture. 
Only in the eighties, our lands began to be legalized as global titles and we began to be recognized not only by the war of the cenepa, but because we have taken care of these immense millenary forests in peace, protecting the borders. 
In 2000, a group of Shuar leaders traveled these lands and founded the territorial district Shuar Arutam, as the Constitution orders. 
This was not otherwise, it was hundreds of meetings and discussions that allowed 6 associations to join with their 48 centers (communities) covering a continuous territory of 230. 
000 Hectares in the province of Morona Santiago on the border with Peru. 
The FICSH declared us its pilot plan, to prove a new form of indigenous government within Ecuadorian State, as a government of special regime in Shuar territory. 
In 2003 we wrote our plan of life that is the axis of our organization, it is the north that tells us where we should walk, because rivers we must navigate and where we should not walk sniffing. 
In our life plan, fundamental issues such as health, education, good management and control of forest and resources, economics and conservation are treated. 
As almost no group of the country does, we order our entire territory into categories of sustainable use and leave more than 120. 
000 Hectares under strict, benefit conservation for all Ecuadorians. 
In 2006 we were legalized in the codenpe as Shuar Arutam people and two years later we signed an agreement with the government to maintain the forest in perfect condition for 20 years and receive contributions that allow us to develop and implement our plan of life, this He called a forest partner. 
As we told President Correa: do not say he does Mining to get us out of poverty, because we, with our way of life, do not feel poor; Say rather how it will protect us as a people and culture  In 2014 we updated our life plan and once again our Ordinary General Assembly, it pronounced against Median Mining and megaminery within our territory. 
Because, as we told President Correa: Do not say he does Mining to get us out of poverty, because we, with our way of life, do not feel poor; Say rather how it will protect us as a people and culture. 
In this situation, the Nankints conflict enters. 
We have raised an institutionalized dialogue from 2008, but in spite of our efforts, we have not managed to establish a serious, sincere, honest and same level dialogue within the framework of the plurinational State. 
This being the reason not to interpret and understand the requirements of the Shuar people. 
In the name of the national interest and saying that what happened in Nankints is an isolated case, they are passed over other rights and other things that are also national interest, as the Constitution says that with its words and convictions wrote: Pluriculturalism and the conservation. 
In Nankints the revolutionary government acts as any colonizing government, forgetting to the international agreements that he has signed. 
More than 38 percent of our territory is concessioned to large-scale mining; All River Strips of the Basins Zamora and Santiago concessioned to small mining; and a gigantic hydroelectric that is about to be built. 
And our question is, where do we want us to live?  The problem is not on the piece of Nankints land that we share with the settlers; People think it has not been from Shuar. 
We never imagined that a mining company was going to buy the state and a few settlers that belongs to us by ancestrality. 
The government forgets and as it has many means to be heard, it imposes its truth. 
In our territory not only Nankints, more than 38 percent of our territory is concessioned to large-scale mining; All River Strips of the Basins Zamora and Santiago concessioned to small mining; and a gigantic hydroelectric that is about to be built. 
And our question is, where do we want us to live?  That is why 9 years ago we told the company to go and recover nankints. 
Nine years later, someone manipulates the president and convinces him before leaving evidenced by force. 
As we do not leave the violence comes. 
They have blamed us from the tragedy of the murdered policeman, but we have not given any order to kill anyone. 
On the other hand, the government, instead of conversing, moves thousands of police and military to our houses, to our land, terrorizes and threaten our children. 
As far as I know, none of our land is sniper or possesses weapons that pierce helmets of that kind. 
Why do not they investigate thoroughly before persecuting us, putting order to capture all the heads of family? Why instead of conversing with us to investigate, stop and prevent violence, close the doors to dark hands, put us in an exceptional state as the terrible dictatorships of the condor plan, which the president says is planning again?  Why do they get into our homes? Why do not they let us live in peace? And the response we have is that in the name of the national interest, we began to be a handful of folk and terrorist Indians that we do not understand what good living is, neither the Sumak Kawsay and even worse the project of the citizen revolution. 
I do not want to stay in the details that are the on Saturday's news for that, we try to see the panorama in which we find ourselves and do not fall into the provocation or primitive discussions that do not take us anywhere. 
This first statement, from the forests of the Cordillera del Cóndor, the thousand families we tell them that we are not going to allow under any circumstances or argument that the violence and strength of the government ends up destroying our house, you home, the house of the world. 
President Rafael Correa, must create a climate of peace, withdrawing his troops, suspending from the state of exception in our province and discarding the capture orders of our leaders and family members. 
The only true path to end this path of destruction - which causes even individual resistance actions that shuar inhabitants to recover their territory - is through the conversation, respect and mutual understanding. 
All the inhabitants of Ecuador and Morona should join our demand for peace, cessible of violence and demand the government for a serious dialogue that respects our lives as an original people. 
Governing Council of the Shuar Arutam people  . 
