Press Bulletin.  D. 
M. 
Quito, August 15, 2015  The Mobilization Days within the framework of the national unemployment and the survey has been a day of active and peaceful demand, framed in our right to resistance, participation, organization and free expression. 
This day of manifestation in which we have participated indigenous, unionists, students, women, doctors, retirees and citizens in general has brutally been repressed by Ecuadorian State, resulting in several injured people and dozens of detainees throughout the country. 
We repudiate the repression and violence of the State expressed in different forms against protesters, especially against women. 
We reject the presence of infiltrated people who generated violence on the streets, which according to several testimonies of protesters, would belong to urban gangs that have publicly pronounced in favor of the government. 
We take responsibility for the violation of the rights of the persons who have been legitimately expressed. 
Quito  30 people were arrested. 
Of these, 23 were processed by flagrancy and 7, among those who were Carlos Pérez, Salvador Quischpe, Katy Betancourt, were released, but his detention was arbitrary, since they were not committing any crime and were never put to order of competent judge . 
It is also the case of Manuela Picq, a Franco-Brazilian journalist, who was arbitrarily arbitrarily and illegally, taken to the hospital with police guard, without she can decide on his mobility and freedom, until now he remains with police guard and the Exterior Ministry withdrew its visa by placing it in an irregular situation, and is waiting for a deportation hearing. 
Of the 23 that were processed by flagrancy, 6 are from the indigenous guard, others are young people from other movements and organizations of Quito. 
Of the 23 that were processed, 12 are in preventive prison and 11 were released and has alternative measures. 
Of the 12 that are deprived of freedom, 1 is a companion of Zamora and another of Bolivar who were of indigenous security. 
All are accused of crime of attack or resistance, Art 283 of the Integral Criminal Code, which can be sanctioned 6 months to 2 years in prison. 
Standard that is unconstitutional because the right to resistance is to protect the rights of people against power, and they are not the rights of the State. 
This is such a broad crime, that anyone who manifests itself in the streets could be unconstitutionally charged. 
Amazon.  Morine Santiago- Bomboiza.  6 Indigenous detainees Shuar, one of them, president of the Association of Bomboiza, were arrested and accused by attack or resistance to authority, Art 283 of the Integral Code Code. 
They were released with substitute measures. 
1 Little girl wounded by tear pump is in the hospital. 
Pasteza.  30 detainees, including two minors and a senior woman, who denounced to be beaten. 
13 are being processed. 
Some were released. 
Azuay.  3 detainees, 2 are from the canton Santa Isabel and 1 of Girón. 
They are accused of the crime of attack or resistance, Art 283 Criminal Integral Code. 
These communities are opposed to La Megaminería. 
Girón is driving a popular consultation to stop the mining project in Kimsacocha. 
Cotopaxi  10 detained, during the eviction in Chaski, where Minister José Serrano arrived, to command the operation of repression, ordering lacrimogenic gases, even from the helicopter, according to testimonies of the protesters. 
4 were processed and the other released. 
As a result of this operation there are several indigenous injured, including Luis Hernán Pallasco, president of the Razu Yaku Unocanc, who lost the right eye of the tear bomb. 
IMBABURA.  5 stops at the day of the survey. 
The communities expressed their rejection of mining in Intag and against the closure of community schools. 
. 
