Illegitimate dismissals put at risk of the health of the entire population and harm the prospects for economic recovery  In recent days, the voices of complaint of workers have multiplied, whose contracts have been abruptly interrupted on the basis of opacas legal justifications, in the midst of one of the greatest economic and health crises that the country has faced. 
These dismissals expose workers to enormous economic and health vulnerability, because they will have to face the measures of sanitary confinement without the perspective of stable income and with the loss of several of their rights, such as health insurance or the subsidy of Disease offered by IESS. 
But, in addition, they put at risk the health and safety of the entire population by harming compliance with sanitary measures: labor precario will push workers dismissed to move outside their homes to obtain livelihoods for their families. 
It calls more attention, that these dismissals occur in large companies, who claiming that the state of exception declared to face the pandemic is a situation of force majeure, have proceeded to end dozens of contracts, without it clear, nor the real affectation produced To the solvency of the company, nor the proper use of the procedures foreseen in the law. 
In this regard, we want to individually condemn the selective use and, therefore, abusive that make some companies of the causal of force majeure, established in article 169 numeral 6 of the Labor Code, to abruptly end the work contracts. 
This causal must be valued by a legitimate authority and not unilaterally by the employer, and less when the operability of the company has not been committed by this crisis, to the point that some companies that have applied abusively that causal continue to carry out their activities commercial. 
However, we also observe that these actions have as a background the passivity of the national government to establish opportunely productive promotion policies that protect employment, and the sustainability of companies, especially micro, small and medium-sized companies that generate 65% of the jobs nationwide. 
By the said, we request:  That the State temporarily subsidies and fortnightly 75% of the unified basic salary of the workers' salaries of companies with liquidity problems in strategic sectors for the country, as well as in the micro, small and medium-sized companies of the rest of sectors , in order to protect national employment with overdraft as a source of financing guaranteed by the State and the co-responsibility of the country's greatest economic groups. 
That reinforced monitoring procedures are established on the fulfillment of labor rights by the Ministry of Labor; and, where appropriate, the opportune and agile processing of demands in the judicial system by the Council of the Judiciary; The National Government must make effective the prohibition of dismissals during the emergency, announced by the President of the Republic; So far it has only made calls of solidarity that are not sufficient; that procedures for timely legal assistance are established to workers on the part of the Ombudsman. 
That the coverage of the subsidy is expanded to basic accounts or electronic money created for self-employed workers, merchants and not affiliated with the Social Security System whose activities have been necessarily paralyzed; The coverage and distribution mechanisms will have to be defined according to the administrative records of the accounts in the financial system provided by the State and on the basis of the mobile telephone consumption patterns. 
An adequate protection of work, which guarantees the consumption of popular classes, is not only essential to guarantee the success of sanitary measures, but also for the success of the subsequent economic recovery process. 
We communicate to the Ecuadorian State to develop sustenance policies of wages and protection of workers immediately, in order to prevent the destruction of jobs, and we also exhort private enterprise, specifically those belonging to large economic groups A Correspondable with the protection of employment in Ecuador, especially seen the enormous levels of profits of recent years and bulky resources deposited abroad. 
Subscribe.  CDS, CEDhu, Inredh, Conaie, Popular Legal Action, Dollarization Observatory, Polytechnic Forum Guayaquil, Overflower Ecuador, Collective The Root, Foundation of Migrant, Digital Magazine Crisis, Human Rights Documentation Center «Second Montes SJ», OUR American, Zurda Bulla. 
. 
