D. 
M. 
, Quito, June 12, 2020

The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, alert on the irresponsible decisions of the Government, such as the semaphorization mechanism, yield to business pressure and expose to the working class, dismantling to the public health system from the national government, as well as Poor service in the country's hospital network and the national COE hurrying the "economic reactivation" based on no credibility data, disorder and misinformation on the impact of the COVID-19 have increased the risk of contagions and people keep dying in the public hospitals due to lack of medicines and attention, it is also evident, the devastation to social security and the option of private clinics is not viable for popular families due to high costs that it is impossible to assume in the midst of crisis, unemployment and labor precario; While the serious cases of corruption in hospitals, ministries, municipalities arise daily without justice acts quickly against the shameless robbery of public money. 
The Hospital Network of Ecuador from the beginning of the pandemic had serious questions made by guilds of doctors and specialists, universities and scientific entities, revealing the alarming reality to face the propagation of the coronavirus, the health emergency showed that the health houses are Devoid of equipment, medicines and biosecurity inputs, the current and latent reality shows mainly insufficient beds in intensive care units, few clinical laboratories and medical specialists in areas that require more sensitive attention to prevent people from continuing to die. 
The scenario is dramatic, three months after the impact of the pandemic in Ecuador is aggravated with the appearance of the "new normality" together with government decisions that further weakens the health system and generate more crisis with budget cuts, laws and neoliberal cutting adjustments involving massive layoffs, unemployment, hunger and misery. 
Lenín Moreno and his indolent and irresponsible government carried out a disastrous management of the pandemic, prioritizing his alliance with the business and financial elites, the payment of more than USD 324 million to the external debt and shamelessly took advantage of the health emergency and the state of exception to Radicalize the IMF impositions that were contained in the indigenous and popular uprising of October 2019. 
Meanwhile, the people continue waiting for their right of access to health, receiving dignified attention and guaranteeing respect for life, people do not trust the public health system, the senior fear from contagion by Covid-19 is inefficiency In hospitals and health houses. 
The scenario is more complex in the indigenous communities, rural areas and peripheries of large cities, since there is a deep socioeconomic inequality, health houses without infrastructure and necessary equipment, scarce health personnel and specialists, which puts the most vulnerable populations At a higher risk, the crisis for these sectors was aggravated with the measures of restriction and social mobility, which prevented access to food, medicines and basic services, among other needs for their survival. 
The indolent government of Moreno failed to understand that quarantine can not be the same in all sectors and more in working families that hold the crisis. 
The threat has not passed, the pandemic continues, but the Government continues to prioritize its business and financial alliance with the great tax evaders, life is not the priority for Moreno. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
