Conaie and the challenges of indigenous movement  This article aims to provide elements of analysis on the political situation of the National Confederation of Indigenous Peoples of Ecuador - with the current challenges in organizational and political terms in order to face a new threatening panorama. 
First of all in a critical context of their base communities, by the siege of different modalities of extractivism in their territories and natural goods, and, at the same time, before a tough struggle with the state, with the attempts to limit the Protagonism of the indigenous movement in the construction of the plurinational and good living state. 
Finally, it is intended to make the limitation and control of the political participation of social organizations in Ecuador. 
In 2008, the Government of Rafael Correa and his Party Alliance Country, ratify a constitution that recognizes the country's plurinationality, the rights of nature, and defends good living. 
The Ecuadorian political context is being transformed, new horizons and hopes are born on the part of the indigenous peoples and nationalities that historically have been exploited and excluded from the state dynamics, a path of greater political participation is avoided, with the expectations of achieving the recognition of the Right to self-government and self-determination. 
However, and especially since the re-election of the current president in 2012, a strong process of reopening of developmental economic dynamics is recorded, among which the greatest impulse to large-scale exploitation natural resources and the territory: gold, copper , Oil, among others. 
As we have seen in other contexts, the development of this extractivism ends up generating destruction of nature and affecting indigenous communities, and has as lateral effects, no population displacements, diseases and pollution. 
The situation presents greater aggravants when we add the sale of land to oil companies and foreign mining without consultation prior to indigenous peoples, losing sight of the constitutional framework where such a consultation is scheduled. 
The Conaie protagonist for decades from the struggles against neoliberal governments, for the recognition of the plurinationality and the defense of the territory as an indigenous movement, is faced with direct attacks and one of the most critical moments before the threats of dismantling and loss of credibility in his political work. 
Faced with these policies Indigenous peoples are mobilized and resist to defend their territory and their rights. 
They denounce these anti-democratic processes, demanding the application of their rights enshrined in the Constitution. 
In the absence of dialogue bridges, they understand that since the Government, the significant democratic contributions of indigenous peoples, present for more than 500 years of fight against colonialism, but rather the line of counteracting the resistance through of strategies that weaken indigenous movement and criminalize social protest. 
An emblematic case of this criminalization to community leaders is that of Javier Ramírez, Ecologist Activist of the Intag Valley (Ibarra), aquired of terrorism and sabotage, held for 10 months in preventive detention before being taken to a trial , and finally exculiated thanks to solidarity and social mobilization, and to the complaint campaign against the criminalization strategy. 
In this regard, creation is interpreted in December 2014 of an indigenous organization sponsored from government spheres: the "indigenous alliance for the citizen revolution", through which the attempt to reach the bases of indigenous movement is perceived, especially In areas of environmental conflicts, to reduce resistance and resume political control in these processes and localities, all this with the 2017 elections as a backdrop. 
The Conaie has had to face various pressures and media campaigns in recent times with the aim of dividing the movement, between the arguments used, we will indicate, for example, the alleged alliances between indigenous leaders and the government, alliances with the right, disputes internal, breach of administrative obligations, etc. 
But perhaps one of the most important blows, because of its symbolic character, was the eviction order of the coneire headquarters of December 2014 by the Ministry of Economic and Social Inclusion (MIES), which puts an end to the Leasing Agreement before of the scheduled date. 
Said public institution gave a term of "15 working days to evict the headquarters before the unforeseen and urgent need for hosting houses for drug addicts, who have exceeded the stage of crisis by detoxification". 
Faced with this attempt of eviction of its headquarters, the CONAIE organized an emergency assembly in which it declared the headquarters as the "ancestral heritage of indigenous peoples". 
They organized a permanent vigil in the building and a legal defense team, and denounced the legal abuse of the legal abuse before the media, national and international law. 
In turn, it was called the solidarity of the social and popular sectors of Ecuador, who answered congregating themselves in marches, participating in the activities of resistance organized from the house, and making public supporting the organization. 
It was also called the international solidarity in which they found the support of 450 intellectuals of the world, through a letter addressed to President Rafael Correa, in which they claimed dialogue and respect for the Ancestral struggle of the Conaie for a more fair country and Equitable in which colonialism is eradicated. 
Internally, the eviction order has involved a process of reactivation of the struggle and resistance in the organization. 
Various base organizations rise to the capital to support the headquarters, the defense by the house, renamed as "the house of Todxs", has a power of the federation and impressive mobilization at a time when the organization was weak. 
However, despite this reaction capacity of the indigenous movement, Conaie is faced with the difficulty of developing long-term collective strategies, adapted to the new political context and the new reality of the indigenous movement. 
The organization must face the necessary integration of the diversity of new subjects that make up the indigenous struggle, along with its contradictions. 
For example, they are no longer all rural indigenous people, but also indigenous people, with new aspirations; There are also activists of indigenous movement that are not identified with resistance to mining and believe in opportunities that mining and oil companies can provide. 
The CONAIE faces the challenge of creating new struggle mechanisms adequate to the new political context of the country, as well as, to integrate the new subjects of the indigenous struggle without losing sight of its ancestral struggle against the various forms of colonialism. 
In addition, beyond resisting the state's states and attempts to dismantle the CONAIE has the challenge of resisting capitalist international dynamics who have already entered their own communities. 
It must be able to propose sustainable social, political and economic alternatives to mobilize and unite the indigenous movement, without falling into the ease of copying or integrating into a state dominant model. 
It is a non-lower challenge that has indigenous movement today. 
Defend marginalized and stigmatized values and life modes by the crushing trends of a capitalist model, installed in the country, but with some forces that come from far beyond the borders of Ecuador, in which only money prevails, which has transformed The human being in capital and nature in extraction source. 
Counter this dynamic may seem utopian, however, are already centuries of struggle and indigenous resistance against all kinds of colonialisms. 
The current weaknesses of this model and its incompatibility with the social and natural bases of life, remain a powerful stimulus to persist in the struggle to build a fairer and equitable one, which assessing the human, community, the ancestral and that allows Defend Mother Earth from the indigenous worldview, in which everyone finds his recognition. 
Very common aspirations, by diverse roads, to which inspire social movements on all continents. 
Taken from: interfere  . 
