Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, August 21, 2015  We denounced that the Ecuadorian government at its inability to generate responses to the legitimate and fair demands of the mobilized people, has put all the state apparatus against indigenous communities and the people, using justice, force, and violence, never dialogue and the reason. 
We rarely reject the judicial harassment against our leaders accusing them of instigation and other crimes that the only thing they seek is to silence every person who dares to question power. 
Faced with this we want to express that our continued struggle, and that Conaie as part of the Popular Assembly, despite the repression exercised by the police and military force to bend our struggle, despite the detainees and detainees throughout the country, Despite the use of the state of unconstitutional exception to generate fear throughout the territory of Ecuador, despite criminalization against our national and provincial leaders; The lifting will continue and strengthen in all the provinces of the country. 
The survey camp that has remained in the park the tree since August 10 and has become a symbol of struggle and resistance, moves to all the provinces, communities and cities where we will sow thousands of "trees" throughout the country And we hope it is reproduced throughout Latin America where the peoples resist the violence of capitalism. 
We inform that based on the demands of communities and grassroots organizations today, the first popular assembly in the park in Quito was installed in Quito, together with trade union, workers, student, peasants, women, barriers. 
In this Popular Assembly we discuss the proposals and demands of the survey and the national unemployment at the central points:  1. 
File of Constitutional Amendments  two. 
Education: Free admission to the University, not at the end of the Community Schools, for the defense of our Intercultural Education  3. 
High extractivism: high to mining and oil in our territories  Four. 
Derogation of Decree 016  5. 
Not to the family plan and respect for the secular state  6. 
Agrarian reform, food sovereignty, not the transgenics  7. 
Not to the TLC with the European Union  8. 
Derogatory of the Labor Justice Law and Anti-Eloberous Decrees  9. 
40% Funds to ESS and refund Magisterium Funds  10. 
Redistribution of water  These points were added several proposals that people and social organizations posed. 
The resolutions of the Popular Assembly and Conaie are the following:  - On August 26, the freedom of all detainees and detainees throughout the country will be carried out, which so far 122 processed people, of which 60 are in prison. 
- We summoned our bases on August 27 to a great assembly of the Conaie  . 
On August 29, great national convention with trade union organizations, guilds and social organizations. 
- Convene popular assemblies throughout Ecuador prior to national march  - Convene a national march on September 16 throughout the country and the 2nd Popular Assembly in Quito in the park the tree struggle and resistance of peoples. 
"They believed that his repression would bury us but they did not know we are seeds"  Quito, Parque El Tranquito, August 21, 2015, Conaie  . 
