Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, August 15, 2015  Given the increase in activity in the Cotopaxi Volcano, the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, CONAIE, social and trade union movements, and the citizenship that we participate in unemployment and national uprising, we express our solidarity with the populations that could be affected before a Eventual eruption 
We make it clear that a statement of state of exception at the national level is justified to face the emergency presented by the Cotopaxi volcano, much less the constitutional rights restriction, the inviolability of the address, transit, meeting and correspondence, in the Totality of the Ecuadorian territory. 
It causes us surprise that this declaration includes areas that are not in areas of involvement, especially when mobilizations are developed in demand for rectifications by the President of the Republic and its Government, compared to a policy that directly impacts rights and Freedoms of peoples and nationalities, as well as all Ecuadorians in general. 
Organizations we call the Constitutional Court so that it is pronounced immediately and independent and attached to the Constitution, by virtue that there is no justification for a measure of this nature throughout the national territory. 
In addition, we manifest that we will remain vigilant at the national level, so that the decree was not constituted in an instrument of violation of the rights and freedoms of the Ecuadorian population and is not used to repress those who manifest themselves peacefully, nor the anteroom of a dictatorship. 
In considering that this decree is aimed at facing an event of nature, we ratify that the lifting and indigenous mobilization and the Ecuadorian people in general are maintained, both in the city of Quito and in the provinces, despite the state of exception. 
Therefore, we summoned the base organizations of the CONAIE and other social sectors and citizens of the provinces to remain firm in the exercise of our constitutional right to resistance; We also make a call to the town of Quito to continue on the fighting days that we carry out. 
We condemn the repression suffered in Logroño and bombing, where there are several wound and detainees; We demand the immediate freedom of our partners detained throughout the country during the day of mobilization, uprising and unemployment, and responsible for the Government for the acts of repression and violence generated against the Ecuadorian population. 
Secretary of Communication of the Rising  . 
