On August 26, the CGA workers' committee initiated a manifestation of arms dropped by the precarious working conditions provided by the company. 
The main harvest disclosures occurred by an inadequate diet, the extensive working day, non-compliance in the payment of utilities, inequality in the treatment of local and foreign workers, discrimination treatment and dispensing that workers receive by managers of the company. 
Within the framework of these protests, on August 28, two leaders of the CGA workers' committee were stopped, which motivated the demonstrators to install the dayum stop. 
On August 30, some representatives of the Workers' and Communities Committee traveled to the city of Coca, to sustain the first negotiation with the Governor of Orellana, the Ministry of Hydrocarbons, the Ministry of Labor and the managers of the company, but By not being present, no representative of the company was suspended the call. 
By knowing the results of the unsuccessful negotiation, the protesters agreed to maintain the paralysis of CGA operations, which was adding forces day after day. 
For its part, Governor of Orellana-Colón Malla visited the unemployment on September 1, and in an attempt to mediate the conflict, inviting protesters to allow the company to continue with operations while negotiations follow. 
The protesters rejected their proposal. 
On September 5, a new dialogue table was convened and the representatives of CGA again refused to participate. 
However, by knowing that oil officials were gathered with Governor of Orellana in the installation of Central AUCA, the protesters moved to the place to insist on dialogue. 
Approximately one thousand people arrived at the station and a small commission was immacuated in the facilities to start negotiations. 
These concluded the early morning of September 6, with the signing of a commitment act and the suspension of the measure actually. 
The agreements achieved in this negotiation focused on:  Integral CGA inspection for 20 business days. 
With the results of this research, a dialogue table was scheduled for October 5. 
Develop a legal analysis that determines the contractual ratio of Subcontracting of CGA with Schlumberger. 
It was resolved that the Ministry of the Interior will follow complaints on abuse and despotic treatato. 
It was guaranteed that reprisals against workers were not generated. 
It was resolved that the company will hire vehicles to provide the transport service, it will be democratized and will extend the food services. 
The days of the unemployment of all workers would be paid by CGA. 
Based on these agreements, a Commission of the Committee of Workers of CGA traveled the last weeks to Quito, to follow up on agreements and hold meetings with different ministries and the company. 
Especially, because they consider that agreements have been embezzled and that the governor, instead of mediating the conflict, defends CGA's interests. 
Proof of this, are the advances in the food issue, according to the negotiation certificate until September 14, this problem should be resolved. 
However, the response of the company was to offer an increase of $ 5, equaling the food card at $ 50 monthly. 
Which caused the indignation of workers and their families, especially if it is considered that the average price of a lunch in the area, fluctuates between $ 3.5 to $ 4.5, and the card must cover the three daily meals. 
On October 4, in Quito, a meeting was held with the Ministry of Hydrocarbons, Ministry of Labor, the Secretary of Management of Politics, Governor and the delegates of the CGA Workers Committee. 
At that meeting, it was reported that the case is taking care of a work judge, especially, for there is the presumption of illegal outsourcing of the services provided by the company; In addition, the representatives of the Committee were requested, postpon the meeting from October 5 to 19, for at this date the final results of the investigation are presented. 
On September 5, CGA workers and communities in the area attended the company's facilities to know the Meeting Agreements of Quito. 
In this meeting, the governor of the province went to the attendees - in a threatening tone, and said - that things are being resolved, so they should immediately be incorporated into their activities or assuming the consequences. 
In addition, it anticipated that any action in fact is generated, militarized the area and mobilized the police force. 
Faced with these pronouncements, the Committee of CGA workers and communities in the area, declared the governor person not pleasant, and reactivated unemployment. 
The turn that took the conflict as a result of the governor's pronouncements, is worrisome, because the protesters are determined to maintain the measure in fact until an authority with moral legitimacy and decision comes to dialogue with the protesters and guarantees the Immediate resolution of the agreements, or the immediate departure of the company is proposed. 
Currently, several police affectives have fenceled the facilities of the company, further fueled the conflict and altering the spirits of the protesters. 
For more information:  Héctor GreenSoto 099349180  Sofia Jarrín 0987987151.    . 
