Luis Ángel Saavedra.  There are dead that stink, it burns soon and forgets them. 
There are other deaths that serve for memory and brings them to collation at timely moments. 
There are dead that bother and dead that help; Dead that seek justice, dead who use justice and dead to which justice uses them. 
There are good dead for politics and politicians, utilitarian dead for power; And there are dead that are important but that power does not matter. 
José Tendentza.  One of the dead that now Estorban is that of José Tendentza. 
They were killed by blows, but the authorities, including the doctor, who examined the body could not determine the cause of death and sent samples of pulmonary tissue and stomach to Quito, so that there is analyzed; Thus, the hands were washed. 
Then he buried him like a nn corpse, without identity, although he was known in the town of El Pangui and throughout the Amazon south, as he participated in several citizen assemblies and raised his voice against mining. 
On several occasions José Tendentza had assured that it would only be killed from its territory, which would never negotiate the territory of its community, Yanúa, with the miners of the Government or Ecuacoriente. 
So it was; Someone had to kill him to leave the lands of him; You still do not know who did it, but if you can infer those who benefit from the death of it: out there you should investigate whether the deadman would import the authorities, the prosecution ... to the government. 
But this dead does not matter, this dead manch and had to bury him soon. 
Joseph found miners on December 2, was floating on the Zamora River. 
He took him to the Pangui, Canton of the province of Zamora. 
His relatives were able to confirm his death through the photographs that indicated them in the morgue, because they had already buried him: that early burial realizes that they recognized him and feared that his corpse be a new symbol of resistance in the Shuar communities that is Oppose mining. 
By ordering of family members and indigenous organizations, their corpse was exhumed and a new autopsy was carried out; this time under the surveillance of Shuar authorities; So it was confirmed that he had been tied up with feet and hands while hitting him; That the rope that surrounded his waist was show that he had been tied to a tree until he exhales the last sigh of him. 
Subsequent inquiries and recognition of the place where they killed him confirmed this hypothesis; So this dead did not die alone, this dead man killed him and the clear ones showed signs of violence that could not see those who rushed to bury him. 
Tendentza was a strong man, knowing the jungle and his secrets, could distinguish the plants that helped the healing of all the evils and knew how to follow the trace of the animals needed to feed his family. 
I was already a grandfather, and he assured that with his grandchildren I would only speak in Shuar, because it is the only language in her could transmit the pride of her people, her millenary wisdom and, above all, only in this language could talk about the wealth of the Mother Earth and the duty to defend it. 
On one occasion he confessed that he sometimes assaulted the depression, which was attacked it on the side, which was crawling and sometimes it came from behind. 
He said that depression took him when he saw his shuar brothers, or the settlers, flirting with the mining company and despising the land in exchange for a handful of money; "Silver is being imposed, he is losing us, will it be that he will win?" He said. 
It was the only time he let us see the worries that assaulted him, but immediately he replied and spoke about the dignity of the Shuar, his insumpension, of the two or three days of hunt that comforted him. 
"They will get me dead," was the conclusion of that day, it was the same conclusion that it reached in each of the interventions he had in the Assemblies, in the forums or training workshops he attended. 
That dead one is the one who now hits; Because when he was alive he saluted without giving hugs, without tightening his hand hard; But in return, he looked so deeply that only with his greeting he could already define if he owed or should not trust the interlocutor of him. 
He looked directly at the soul, "the miners do not look, escaped, they want to get lost in their eyes, they have lost their word; But I looked at them and I know that they are miners, which are children traitors, that their word has no value, "she said. 
We know that with this dead there will be no negotiations, with this dead there will be no appointments of officials, or compensation, no comments in Saturdays. 
With this dead there will be no agencious audit. 
He is a dead man who will continue to hinder and that he will not rest in peace, because it is not only the revelation of those responsible for his death which will make his soul rest, but will continue to hinder until the Chinese ECSA goes from its lands, such as Several times he had shouted: "My fight will be until the Chinese ECSA leaves here"  Taish vs. 
Wisuma.  On November 7, 2013, Freddy Taish, a young Shuar, father of a 15-day child was born at that time; He is now a year old and is intended to grow Sinsu company and address. 
Freddy died in the framework of a poorly organized military operative and worse executed, when a patrol performed an operation to require dredges with which mining work is carried out on the Zamora River, in the Parish Bomboiza, Canton Gualaquiza, Province of Morona Santiago. 
The bullet who killed Freddy is a military allocation of 9mm, and corresponds to one of the weapons that army officers carry. 
Here there is not like saying that Shuar shot each other. 
After the death of Freddy, in the Saturday Saturday, November 9, President Rafael Correa referred to this death, which he described as "confused", and did not give details, he only said that "it will have to be investigated." 
From there until the moment he has not referred to Freddy's death. 
For his part, the military and the Minister of Defense at that time, María Fernanda Espinoza, tried to configure the existence of a confrontation between Freddy and a military platoon: one against twenty, at least. 
The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (Coanie) and Shuar organizations in the area rejected the military version. 
After the scandal, the military has not returned to rule on the subject. 
Freddy was dead. 
Now only an Indigenous Shuar Justice Commission tries to reconstruct the facts and establish responsibilities; While in the Prosecutor's Office of Gualaquiza the process is dead. 
Freddy has died twice and is another of the dead who host, who wishes to condemn oblivion. 
But Wisuma, another Shuar dead during a protest, is alive in the memory of the government and in the memory of justice, despite having died 4 years before Freddy. 
In honor of Bosco Wisuma now there is a school that bears his name, was inaugurated a little over a year ago by President Correa himself, who murdered that Wisuma's death will not remain in impunity. 
A responsible was sought and this responsibility fell on an indigenous assembly one who was not even at the place of the facts. 
Bosco Wisuma was a professor and leader of Shuar nationality, he supported and participated in a day of protest against the government that occurred in the city of Macas, rejecting the government's intention to impose a law of water inconsult. 
Bosco Wisuma died defending the rights of his people but, things about politics, his memory ended up being a government iconography to which he rejected. 
Why is the difference in the memory of these dead?  The construction of the Wisuma case  In 2009 it was already clear that the Government of President Correa had opted for a political direction other than that embodied in the 2008 Constitution, since a series of measures were implemented to favor large-scale mining projects and renew concessions for The commercialization of water, even when this was constitutionally prohibited. 
Faced with government ambivalences, the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, decided to convene a survey for the end of September 2009: the defense of water and the opposition to large-scale mining were the reasons for this call. 
The greater strength of this survey occurred in the city of Macas, where Shuar faced strong operations implemented by the National Police. 
This confrontation caused the death of Professor Shuar Bosco Wisuma, who actively participated in the protest. 
The death of Wisumaindigano to Shuar nationality and radicalized the measure in fact, until a direct dialogue with the Government was achieved on October 5. 
Among other things, it was agreed to form a commission to investigate the death of the Shuar leader, at the same time that the Prosecutor's Office made the investigations of ex officio. 
The prosecution accused Fidel Caniras as the author of the shot that caused Wisuma's death; Two Shuar witnesses appeared, the Alberto and Freddy Anwasha brothers who based on the prosecutor's version. 
Caniras is a Shuar who had participated in the protest, many witnesses saw him. 
The Anwasha brothers said they were hidden at the edge of the road and looked at everything; There were no witnesses who have seen them. 
At the time of reconstruction of the facts, these brothers did not know where to be able to corroborate the prosecutor's version, because they should prove that from their location they could see Caniras shoot and Wisuma fall down the shot. 
This version of the prosecution fell. 
The Anwasha brothers were a time protected as key witnesses, then the government abandoned them; Now they are not in your community and nobody knows where they have gone. 
The prosecution version also fell by ballistics tests, because in the distance that separated Caniras from Wisuma, at least 25 pellets had to be reached and not only one with an additional fragment, as it was in this case. 
For its part, the Research Commission of the Wisuma case, could not advance as it was due, the government delegates did not attend and prefer to give versions in accordance with their interest, because at this point it was also clear that the Government sought responsibility for the death of WISUMA to the Shuar, arguing that they had shotpage shotguns and who had shot the police, causing wounds on 29 of them and in a reporter. 
Its main argument was that the pellets that wound the police were of similar characteristics to the pellet who took the life of Wisuma, although in the expert report requested by the prosecution it is concluded that it is not possible to determine the position of the trigger, which It could have been within a minimum radius of 50 meters. 
On this radius were Shuar and policemen and wounded in the two sides and with the same kind of pellet, more than Shuar wounded with pellets, called Mostacillas, used by police as non-lethal weapons. 
One of these sleeves, with dozens of them, entered the thigh of a Shuar completely, demonstrating that they are also lethal ammunition. 
A second forensic expertise was made, this time under driving a French anthropologist. 
His conclusions establish the route that the pellets did within the body, but neither could he determine the external trajectory of this projectile; He also recommended examining the fragment he had found, and who was overlooked at the first autopsy, because he had other characteristics in his chemical composition of the handmade pellets that, they said, were used by Shuar. 
Despite all this, the government insisted on holding Shuar and for this he should keep the memory of Bosco Wisuma in his speech; More even when justice entered his batteries towards a historical leader of Shuar Nationality; Pepe Acacho, who was finally condemned, as he said, without even having been at the place of the facts. 
The iconography built around the figure of Bosco Wisuma realizes how the government can transform a fact that was given against him, to a fact that strengthens his image; As long as a similar fact, but that has no option to be used in your favor, it can be convicted of oblivion. 
The School with the name of Bosco Wisuma and the sentence to Pepe Acacho does not do justice, because the school does not claim Wisuma's struggle but the government's interest, and the condemnation of Acacho does not do justice, but if it takes away an obstacle to the government In its intention to split the Shuar organization and impose its extractivist policy, because the oil rounds and advanced explorations are coming in the downtown and Sur Amazon area. 
The same strategy has been implemented with other deaths, such as those of 30s, which serve to enhance the presidential image, without the justice that longs for their relatives and, as opposed, other deaths have been made in the obscurity of oblivion, as those noted in the report of the Truth Commission that are not close to the collaborators of the regime or that can not be lenting to persecute the opponents. 
An agencious prosecution  For the prosecution, the dead have the same value they have for the government; If you have to unearth your memory, it will be done according to how much they contribute for the governmental image. 
With Wisuma they were agencious, they distorted step by step the story to cornered a Shuar leader. 
There was a prize for the provincial prosecutor who led the case: now he is mayor. 
With Taish they have not found roads, despite having all the necessary information to establish responsibilities; Now with new tendezade they will look for shelling in the shadow of oblivion. 
But meanwhile they want to revive other memories, they want to make a wall a blanket that covers their current forgetfulness; They want to reveal their mural despite the criticisms of the relatives of those dead, of those disappeared that shouted from the past; Critics of family members who say it is not the time, which is not opportune, that the repair of human rights violations should be initiated by pointing the current violations; demanding the power that respects and not following their desires, not being submissive and not paying to use the judicial system as a system of harassment for the dissident, for the insumcy, for those who have made their flag freedom, for those who have made The defense of its territories a matter of life. 
Tendentza will not have peace, Taish will not have peace, Wisuma will not have peace; The dead and disappeared from before will not have peace with the unveiling of a mural that caricaturizes its struggles: those of before will continue shouting through the rights of now, and will do it with a voice "brutal as the ripping of a match", as He used to scream Gustavo Garzón, that missing writer who was not from the heap that now walks through the salons of the government and recalls a story that no longer belongs to them. 
Source: http: // www. 
Inrest. 
org/index. 
php?option=com_content&view=article&id=659
. 
