May 01, 2020  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, CONAIE, by commemorating May 1 as International Workers' Day recognizes the struggle of the working class and vindicates the principle of the Field Unit and the City. 
In the context of the global crisis by the Covid 19, where more than 60% of the population does not have full employment, we call a day of defense of our rights from our homes under the storage of isolated, but not silent, organizing and adding ourselves To the pan, TUITAZO and Embankment for life in commemoration of May 1, so that food, medicine and employment for the people are guaranteed. 
We are the workers of the countryside and the city who have put the human contingent, the dead and the silver, however, so far from the health emergency more than 1. 
200 complaints of indoor dismissals have been presented at the Ministry of Labor, despite, on March 12, 2020 President Lenín Moreno offered that there would be no dismissals while the country faces the pandemic, only in recent weeks around 140 people They were dismissed from Confectioneca, 130 of Ecuacerámica, 150 of cow coffee and 20 Fontana ice cream parlors. 
Companies justify their actions based on their convenience Article 169 of the Labor Code and this will be aggravated in the coming months with more dismissals. 
For this reason, in this context we must raise our protest voice from our homes for the social vindication and struggle of workers, as a real tribute through the lives of thousands of companions and fellow fallen in the struggles of labor, peasants, Indigenous, women, youth, diverse struggles in different geographies, so that today we have guaranteed labor rights. 
Indigenous peoples are workers of the countryside and together with the workers of the city we embodied one force, a single fist, a single heart. 
With the application of the latest economic measures, the Government and its ministers transfer the thickness of the crisis to the working class, the peasant and the popular sectors, taking advantage of the crisis of the coronavirus the neoliberal policies are applied from the government to further the economic crisis , politics and social, being a crucial moment for the defense of our rights and the struggle of the peoples. 
Let us vindicate this historic date with the construction of unity together with the popular sectors, of workers, peasants, students, retirees, ecologists, Montubes, Afro Ecuadorians, mestizos and other historically marginalized sectors. 
Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
