D. 
M. 
Quito, October 31, 2019  Press release  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, delivered today, Thursday, October 31, the alternative proposal to the economic and social model, which is the result of the approaches, debates, analysis and demands of the Parliament of peoples, organizations and collectives Social, which grouped the representation of more than 180 social organizations. 
The delivery of this document was achieved respecting the formal process initiated since Sunday, October 14 at the Technical Tables of Dialogue with the National Government, and above all, in respect for the Word placed by the indigenous movement, through, of the mediation of the UN Ecuador and the Ecuadorian Episcopal Conference, as guarantors of the process, being the Ecuadorian people witnessing it. 
We reject the recent accusations of the president and invite you to be consistent with what has been treated publicly, without fostering divisionism or surprising with external meetings and at the last minute. 
Among the important points of the proposal to the country are considered the following points:  The discussion on subsidies to fuels, as well as economic policy in general, must be addressed in an integral manner, depending on the reality of the country and the situation of the poorest, and outside of any regulatory requirement of the IMF and, In particular, the letter of intention subscribed on March of this year. 
Therefore, we consider that subsidies to fuel should be maintained until criteria of justice and equity for economic and tax policy are defined, in such a way that the fiscal burden is equitably distributed and allows the elimination of real poverty and Social inequality. 
Our reference to the economic model is part of the finding that the IMF impositions imply: concentration of income in the richest, establishment of mercantile relations that fracture society, expansion of extractive extractivism and predators of the Communities and nature, exclusion of richness to the majority of the population, authoritarianism to sustain and protect their measures, imposition on the outside of democratic institutions and rules, state use and economic policy for their own benefit and groups. 
We are a plurinational society that generates opportunities every day: peasants, indigenous, workers, microentrepreneurs, businessmen, self-employed workers, students, women, professionals, young people, in short, all society, it creates a wealth that, unfortunately, is not distributed Fairly. 
Our proposal for an alternative to the economic model presented below raises that the wealth that is created by all Ecuadorians is distributed equitably and that allows us to build ourselves as a free, fair, democratic, participatory society that resolves its conflicts from Dialogue, social peace and the search for consensus. 
The official document with the receipt of the Presidency Secretariat of the Republic is available on our official digital platforms. 
Proposal to the country in PDF  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
