Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, December 22, 2017  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador - Conaie, first of all, we solidated with the family, friends and loved ones of the girl Emilia Benavides Basin Oriunda de la Provincial de Loja, who knew, with enormous pain, which was found no life in Catamayo after his kidnapping on December 15. 
We accompany you in pain, but also in the commitment to make justice and the struggle so that we do not have a less life of girls and women. 
This aberrant case that has sensitized us in the deepest, is one of the most brutal expressions of how macho violence is installed in our society. 
Because it is not an isolated case, no result of an exceptional act of madness. 
In Ecuador every 58 hours a woman is murdered violently. 
This is the product of a patriarchal and violent culture, which has the bodies and lives of women, which is aggravated by the fact that the aggressors are - as in the case of small Emilia - from the surroundings close to the Victimas, in the vast majority partners, former couples or family members. 
For this reason we want to call the awareness that femicide, child femicide as this case, abuses and violations are not a problem that is solved only by the "punishment" to the victimizers, as they wanted to position some figures using politically using politically this Case, but an extensive system of protection and prevention is required that today the State does not guarantee, which allows women and girls to denounce violence and abuses, feel safe and protect themselves against the repeated forms of violence that end up in femicidity. 
As well as the State should make a commitment with real results to dismantle modern slave that involves trafficking in persons (which is very mostly deals with women for sexual exploitation), as well as child pornography networks. 
Violence is a mechanism inscribed in the institutions for the control of society, and especially women, as a support of a system that oppresses and exploits in the workplace and in the domestic, and these guidelines are reproduced permanently Through an authoritarian, violent, macho and racist education. 
For this reason we have certainty that if the State does not progress towards a law of prevention of gender violence, and worked seriously on the education of our children to eliminate the idea that men can have the bodies of women, while Women must be docile and reserved, this does not change. 
We reaffirm our position to fight against gender violence in the field and the city, to transform both the institutional framework that has failed to protect the rights of women and girls, so that our community systems are increasingly equitable and Recognize the transformations that we must generate to build free territories of violence and protect the most sacred we have: the right to a free and dignified life. 
The struggle for the elimination of all form of gender violence, and in particular against its most extreme form that is Femicide, is a commitment to Conaie, for the construction of a multi-national, equal and full-fledged state. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President Conaie.   Bulletin in PDF.  . 
