Lima, July 7, 2017  About an hour and a half, the rapporteurs of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) listened to the representatives of the Ecumenical Commission on Human Rights (CEDhu), the Regional Human Rights Advisory Foundation (INREDH) and the Confederation of Nationalities Indigenous Ecuador (CONAIE) at the 163rd Special Session of the Commission that was developed today, July 7, 2017, at 11:00, in the city of Lima- Peru. 
The three organizations requested an audience on "complaints of violence and harassment against human rights defenders in Ecuador" to evidence the link between the lack of protection for human rights defenders in the performance of their work and the lack of due Diligence in criminal investigations when suffering threats, harassment and even murders against them. 
Esmeralda Arosemena de Troitiño, who presided over the thematic audience, expressed that this audience is not a space of confrontation between civil society and the State, and said that the appearance of states allow an analysis of the situations that are presented there. 
With it coincided, the rapporteur of defenders of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights José de Jesús Orozco who regretted the absence of the State and indicated that this hinders the Commission at the time of fulfilling its work. 
In addition, it reiterated the need to continue receiving information from the State on the subject. 
By installing, AROSEMENA audience read the Charter of the Ecuadorian State that is excused to attend the audience because it ensures that the subjects and petitioner organizations have already treated these issues in previous audience. 
In addition, that they are particular cases, which contradicts the mandate of the Commission. 
Faced with the absence of Ecuadorian state officials, the audience began with the petitioners Mirella Tonato, Inredh's legal assistant; Jorge Herrera, president of the CONAIE; Harold Burbano, legal advisor to Inredh and Francisco Hurtado, CEDhu's legal advisor, respectively. 
The petitioners alleged that when a human rights defender is assaulted, threatened, harassed or even murdered, the State does not dilutely investigate those cases. 
They also indicated that there are circumstances in which poor and ineffective investigations are carried out to achieve truth, justice and comprehensive repair for victims of those cases. 
And as opposed reported that the criminal system is used to pursue the activities of the defenders and in that case, investigations are rapid and derive, in some cases in condemnatory sentences. 
At the hearing, different cases of GLBTI rights defenders, human, territorial and nature defenders, persons belonging to indigenous peoples were presented; Cases such as Maico Ordóñez, Freddy Taish, José Tendetza, Esther Landeta, Paulina Muñoz and Telmo Pacheco, who due to lack of protection of the State, have suffered violation of rights and their cases remain in impunity. 
These cases allow to show the absence of public policies, both for the protection of defenders and the efforts of the State to prevent it from deficient investigations from being derived in cases that are finally in impunity. 
According to Mirella Tonato, Inredh's legal assistant, the objective of the audience, was to deliver and expose systematized information on the lack of research and deprotection in cases of violence and threat against human rights defenders. 
He also expressed that human rights defenders are unprotected, because there is no impartiality by justice operators. 
Harold Burbano, Inredh's legal advisor, was emphatic in saying that it is the obligation of the State, generate an enabling environment for human rights defenders. 
Francis Hurtado, CEDhu's lawyer emphasized that the judicial protection of defenders is not restricted to the formal existence of a resource, but about the need for it to be effective, that is, investigations with due diligence conducive be carried out , Justice and repair. 
The President of the CONAIE said that the criminalization of social protest is a lack of respect for human rights, regretted the absence of the State and recalled that the work of human rights defenders contribute to democratic dialogue and the construction of the plurinational State. 
Finally, it was insisted on the need to repeal the crime of attack and resistance in which several cases of criminalization are sustained and that Amnesty's request is processed in the National Assembly, and on the other hand it was announced that yesterday, 6 of Julio, a complaint was given to the IACHR for the deficient investigation that derived in impunity in the murder of José Tendetza Antúún. 
At the hearing, a video was reproduced with testimonies of human rights defenders who have been harassed in Ecuador. 
Video: Here  Full Hearing: Here  . 
