Drafting: JUMANDY TUALOMBO  Photo: CIDH.  The Ecuadorian State, chaired by Rafael Correa Delgado, did not attend the thematic audience Indigenous peoples and freedom of association in the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) on Monday, April 4, 2016, alluding that "rejects the use of this Inter-American Forum To inspensely expose assumptions about particular cases "according to the letter sent to the International Human Rights Agency. 
According to the letter, which was read during the hearing, is that "this mechanism (hearings) attentive not only against the Commission's regulatory procedure, but also to the rights of defense of the Ecuadorian State." 
Photo: CIDH.  The petitioners were the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE), the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon (Conféde), the Human Rights Center of the Pontifical Catholic University of Ecuador (PUCE) and the Regional Rights Advisory Foundation Human (Inredh), with the purpose of denouncing and visible the current situation of violation of the Right of Freedom of Association of Communities, Peoples and Indigenous Nationalities of the country since the Government of Ecuador moved the competences of registration and legalization of the communities , Indigenous Peoples and Nationalities to the Undersecretariat of Peoples and Interculturality that belongs to the National Secretary of Policy Management. 
This institution of the Government of Turno is responsible for registering and legalizes the Directives, as the petitioners were affirmed before the IACHR. 
If a community or authority is opposed to government policies is not registered and legalized, indigenous leaders such as Jorge Herrera, Franco Viteri and Bartolo Ushigua before the commissioners. 
In addition, the Government creates parallel organizations to generate internal conflicts in the Organization, thus testified by the prediese of Conféniae, Franco Viteri. 
Jorge Herrera, president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie mentioned before the Commission that the current Government seeks strategies to divide the organizations that historically have been formed and structured for the benefit of society, so they resort to international bodies for That is observed and this fundamental right is guaranteed in the country. 
Franco Viteri, president of the Amazon Regional, presented and denuncted that the attempt of fragmentation and weakening of organizational structures by the State by creating parallel leaders to counteract the resistance that the region carries out against extractive companies and rejection State policies that affect the area. 
Manari Ushigua, president of Sápara nationality ratified that the objective of the Organizational Division is to execute the exploitation of oil in its territories, mainly in block 79 and 83 with the company Andes Petroleum. 
Wilson Ordoñez, lawyer of the CONAIE, requested before the commissioners that:  Recommends the Ecuadorian State that adapts internal regulations to respect and guarantee the right to freedom of association of indigenous peoples. 
It recommends the Ecuadorian State that the competence on legalization and registration of nationalities and peoples and their respective directives lies in an Independent Body to a Secretariat or Ministry of the Executive and, taking into account international principles on participation and representation of indigenous peoples. 
Recommend the Ecuadorian State that any public policy, including in the normative sphere to regulate the situation of legalization and registration of the indigenous authorities, must respect the standards on prior consultation. 
Recommend the Ecuadorian State to refrain from interfering in the creation of parallel directives and authorities that promote the political crisis and the breaking of relationships between indigenous peoples and nationalities. 
Recommend the Ecuadorian state that it reviews on the registration of authorities that have not necessarily been chosen in a legitimate manner following the organizations and customs of each people and nationality, and that in the case of finding irregularities, revoke this state recognition. 
The Ecuadorian State sent a statement to the IACHR, which was read before the petitioners, and in which it was manifested that "Ecuador insists on pointing out that in these calls to thematic audience, the legal nature contained in Article 66 of the Regulation of the Commission". 
To decite Ecuador because "the substantiation of a general audience does not protect the legal possibility to know private issues as follows from the applications submitted for the aforementioned call". 
In the section, the Government of Ecuador rejected the alleged use of this Inter-American Forum to insistently expose, to say of them (Government of Rafael Correa), supposed claims on particular cases. 
. 
