Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, December 21, 2016  At 00h15 today, Wednesday, December 21, Agustín Wachapá, president of the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar Centers (FICSH), was arrested, according to sources of official entities supposedly in compliance with an order issued by Angie Mercy Troy, Judge of the Police Unity Multicompeting succuia. 
In addition, there was the raid of FICSH headquarters for supposedly by the judicial order that exposes seizes "Incaute objects related to the fact that is investigated, such as explosive materials, artisanarms or not, gunpowder, ammunition, pamphlets, computers, cameras photographic, video recorders, cell phones, tablets, communications, minutes, which could be used to perpetrate acts against life and incite armed confrontations that shock the internal order and citizen security in general. " 
Quoted that they applied to destroy, force the doors. 
Since the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, CONAIE, we reject the violation of human rights given in Ecuador continuously. 
Propotance and dictatorial character with which Rafael Correa acts is evidenced in each of the pronouncements that it does through different means. 
We reject the unnecessary violence with which the search is performed, at dawn, destroying the offices that serve the management of educational, health and territorial issues of the Shuar nation, as well as Arutam radio. 
Because this only contributes to intensifying the zozobra in which the Shuar people of Morona Santiago are immersed, which we can only interpret as the willingness of the government to provoke. 
We reiterate our call for international mediation. 
A document has been sent to Pope Francis so he can intervene for mediation. 
In the same way with the different human rights organizations at the international level. 
We argue all the organizations, academies and population of Ecuador and the world to be attentive to things that can happen with the Shuar people, the indigenous movement, Conaie, with all its structure and invite solidarity and unite between peoples and nationalities. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  PDF Bulletin  . 
