Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, March 30, 2017  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conaie from the area of communication in articulation with Community radios, base organizations, community communication collectives and co-production with the collective El Churo will carry out, through Radio Conaie, its institutional program " Drums sound ", the voice of peoples and nationalities, to inform, deepen and disseminate about the realities that crosses the peoples and nationalities in Ecuador every second (2) and fourth (4) Thursday of each month. 
The second season contains more information spaces. 
The duration is one (1) hour. 
The format that works is Radiorevista, composed of the following segments: Minka de voices; Integrating voices; Diverse land; Women, fight and freedom; Radio Novel Dolores Cacuango; Viva Amazon; And Wambrakuna. 
At the premiere of this second season, the following topics were addressed: in Minka de Voces addressed over a new audience against criminalized in Saraguro; Government accuses and investigates Sarayaku People for alleged detention to military; Visit to Agustín Wachapa in Latacunga prison; and Activities of the Conaie. 
Integrating voices analyzes about Nankints: Situation after the state of exception through the voice of the President of the Shuar Arutam people. 
Diverse land addresses the Andean Nina-New Year Mushuk. 
While in women, struggle and freedom tell us about the action of solidarity with the 43 girls who died in Guatemala, the activity was carried out by the women of Conaie; In addition, we will present the profile of Bertha Cáceres. 
Similarly, we share the first part of the novel radio Dolores Cacuango, material of passionate radialists and the Rosa Luxembourg Foundation. 
While in Amazonia Viva addresses information about the protection of the jungle. 
And in Wambrakuna we talked with Sofia sources about the lives of the towns in the urban part of Otavalo. 
The premiere occurred this Thursday, March 30 at 4:00 pm (Ecuador) through Radio Conaie (www. 
Conaie 
org) and Wambra Radio (www. 
a mutharadio. 
with). 
Listen here:  Link: https: // mx. 
Ivoox. 
COM / ES / Premiere-Tambores-sound-second-season-March-2-Audios-MP3_RF_17870955_1. 
HTML.  Conaie communication  Bulletin in PDF: Here  . 
