Press release  Again, thousands of citizens and citizens took the streets of the different cities of Ecuador on November 11, 2015, in rejection of the constitutional amendments, for the freedom of political prisoners and by disagreement before the social and economic crisis through which it crosses The country due to inefficiency in the construction of public policies that favor the population in general. 
It is a clear show that the Ecuadorian people lost the fear of arrogance, authoritarianism, persecution, criminalization and the repression of Rafael Correa. 
For this reason we greet the brave people of Saraguro, who despite the repression lived in August came back to the streets, as well as the brave towns of the popular sectors, students, housewives, professors, retirees, workers, peasants, indigenous , intellectuals and citizenship in general by Guayaquil, Puyo, Cuenca, Loja, Ibarra. 
All those who mobilized in the different cities of the country our sincere recognition, which despite the police repression remained firm. 
We call our bases of indigenous peoples and nationalities, peasants, Afro Ecuadorians, Cholos, mestizos, workers, students, housewives, retirees, teachers, intellectuals and other sectors more dispossessed and exploited from the countryside and the city to be attentive By December, month in which they prepare the approval of the constitutional amendments, with the pretext of tonnery in power, so new actions will be carried out. 
Our struggle is historical, the streets will be the spaces until our proposals, the struggle platform is considered for the construction of public policies that benefit the violated sectors. 
Our ideological independence is clear, in this fight has no place the right of the country that is embedded in the Government of Turn. 
Long live the popular social fight!  By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  PDF Bulletin  Mobilization Rejection of Constitutional Amendments 11 November Quito - Ecuador https: // www. 
youtube. 
COM / WATCH? V = LSZAUXR3K4G  Reasons why the mobilizations continue in Ecuador - Jorge Herrera, PDTE #NCONAIE HTTPS: // www. 
youtube. 
com / watch? v = fsckiepnsna  Complete gallery in: https: // www. 
flickr. 
COM / GP / CONAIECOMUNICATION / H25A3O  . 
