D. 
M. 
, Quito, September 14, 2020  Provisions for Communities, Communities, Peoples and Indigenous Nationalities against the completion of the State of Exception as of Sunday, September 13, 2020. 
After 6 months of validity, the state of emergency ends, but it is essential to understand that the health emergency and the pandemic by Covid-19 continues, is so until Sunday, September 13 Ecuador added 118 594 confirmed cases and more than 10 . 
000 Deaths in the context of the pandemic, according to government data. 
In the territories of indigenous peoples and nationalities, the figures reflect an increase, therefore, against the abandonment of the State, the indigenous communities remain on a permanent alert to stop contagions, only in the Ecuadorian Amazon until September 3, 2911 confirmed cases were recorded and 92 deceased in the context of the pandemic, with data from our regional confeniae. 
At the level of Latin America, the propagation of the Covid-19 in the indigenous territories and peoples is increasing, 62 thousand positive cases were reported until August 5, 2020, according to data from the FILAC. 
Consequently, to these figures and in front of the latent reality, the CONAIE and the structure of the indigenous movement provides that in the territories of the communes, communities, peoples and nationalities, the rules of prevention, biosecurity and control protocols for Contain the massive contagion of the COVID-19, while adapting progressively, according to the specific realities of each territory, to productive activities without neglecting community health. 
The level of organization in our structure has been decisive in containing the pandemic in these territories in the face of the total absence of the State, experience and self-management so demonstrate, follow in our permanent information campaign in originating languages, strategic alliances with organizations and universities for The realization of massive detection, management of kits deliveries and humanitarian aid to the most vulnerable sectors, barter, humanitarian exchange and fair trade to face the crisis, among other permanent actions from the beginning of the pandemic. 
Given this, in strict attachment to the right of self-determination of peoples, expressed in the Constitution, Treaty 169 of the ILO and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the recommendations of the IACHR for the health emergency Covid19, The continuity of prevention measures, medical brigade and the effective promotion of biosecurity measures are available in all productive and community activities. 
This provision implies:  Develop productive and community activities prioritizing self-care, social distancing, mandatory mask use, frequent hand washing and more relevant biosecurity measures, promoting community health. 
The active Community guards are maintained by controlling access to community territories, and saving collective discipline. 
The forms of Community exchange, barter, community fairs are maintained, keeping prevention measures to supply our territories equitably. 
We urge strengthen the aid to the populations of the city, maintaining righteous prices, fighting against the speculation of products because of the intermediaries, looking for ways to directly reach the consumer. 
Continue the prevention campaign in languages originating to raise awareness among our partners and colleagues on measures to counteract the pandemic. 
The Conaie and its regional maintain the consultation channels and evaluation of the situation with expert epidemiologists and dialogues with WHO and PAHO to take the measures that are created relevant. 
For indigenous peoples, life is about capital, we are aware of the economic coup that meant the phases of confinement, distancing for our families and communities, now we need to raise our people's economy, strengthen food sovereignty, with a large Minga in unity , resisting without lowering the alert against the pandemic, taking care of our lives and that of our communities, aware that the danger of contagion and lethality of the virus continues. 
In the case of communes, communities, peoples and indigenous nationalities after 6 months there is no official figure of contagions in their territories by the National COE, no specific protocols directed from the public health system, added to the situation of Vulnerability of rural sectors due to lack of basic and health services, put into serious risk to the indigenous, peasant population. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie   . 
