Press release  After four months of fiscal instruction, the Pastaza Prosecutor's Office will call 10 Citizens of Pastaza to High Judgment Hearing Next Tuesday, December 8 at the Council of the Judicurea depart from 8:00 am, in a day that is foreseen as strenuous For defense and processed. 
Since the social sectors of the Province and the country, solidarity actions have been permanent by criminalized after the protests of August 13 in Puyo within the framework of the national unemployment. 
The actions generated through seedlings, vigils, marches, have contributed to the successive release of 9 people incarcerated between August and November, in view of the lack of evidence against them. 
For the planned audience, backup samples intensify with a popular vigil in the outdoor of the court, demanding justice for our colleagues, unjustly processed because they fight is not a crime. 
Jorge Herrera, president of the Conaie together with his Government Council and Legal Department have confirmed his presence to solve the judicialized and his families, demanding justice, legal independence and unfairly open processes against Patricio Meza, Elvis Guamán, second pilatexi , Stalin Robles, José Tubón, José de la Cruz, Richard Guatatoca, Alex Borja, Joshua Ordoñez and Nelson Uyunkar. 
A thorough review of the more than 1900 pages that make up the nineteen procedural bodies of fiscal instruction 160101815080140 Open by Maribel Barreno, Pastaza Fiscal evidences a series of legal inconsistencies that will be demonstrated by the defense. 
The accusation of attack or resistance constitutes an error in the typification that contradicts the right to resistance enshrined in the Constitution of Ecuador. 
In addition, there was no arrest warrant that generated the alleged attack or resistance, so this accusation is a legal equivocal. 
In a sample of absolute injustice, the prison of 9 people for a period of between 2 and 3 months attentive against the rights of the detainees since it despite its incringing the prosecution did not find evidence that justifies that they continue detained, as recognized by the same entity. And it can be corroborated in the case records. 
On the other hand, the particular accusation made by the police and ministry of the interior on October 15, two days is performed outside the 60-day period that sends the law. 
Such an accusation means an act of victimization by the State that evades its responsibility in the acts of criminalization of the struggle and social protest in Ecuador, accentuated from the month of August until this date. 
Such facts represent only a small sample of the clear political tint of arrests and fiscal process as well as the total lack of legal sustenance in the corporation against innocent citizens: 34 detained the night of August 13, 9 of them arrested for a period between 2 and 3 months (August to October), with 10 citizens even with an open instruction, plus 2 minors. 
We express before the public opinion that the Pastaza Prosecutor's Office is due to evidence and has acted according to the political interests of the country alliance, existing various irregularities throughout the process that respond to political pressures from the government, as reported by the defense. 
To this are added aggressions, abuse and excesses against detainees such as Margoth Escobar and others, timely reported to society, together with regrettable acts of concealment and obstruction of defense information, which in some of the cases received the last legal bodies with Less than 72 hours in advance, as well as audience calls less than 24 hours in advance. 
Finally, there is no climate of trust in justice and the people doubt seriously of legal independence. 
We demand the innocence of all the processes and demand the file of the judgments against them, with the legitimate reservation of initiating judicial processes against the State. 
The defense prepares his allegation and will demonstrate these and other inconsistencies so that truth comes to light. 
Solidarity with the criminalized August 13 in Pastaza. 
#Libertadpressosxluchar.  #JusticiaCriminalizedAmazonia.  . 
