The National Indigenous Organization of Colombia -onic-, from its Ministry of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, Human Rights and Peace condemnation, Repudia, denounces and rejects categorically the systematic and continuous violation of human rights and, physical extermination and Cultural that is being presented at the national level, against indigenous peoples. 
In just 10 days, 13 indigenous leaders have been massacred in the country. 
• Al son of Marimba and with the canes in high, Awá indigenous town of Bedawari sail the bodies of its authorities in the middle of the grazing grass - tumaco. 
Nariño:  In hours of the morning at the Awa Indigenous People's guard, Palmar Imbi Mida, in the municipality of Ricaurte Nariño, were massacred Héctor Ramiro García Guanga, founder of the Large Cabildo Awá de Ricaurte, Nariño-Camewari and his son Arturo García, who the Yesterday he had been elected as governor; The fact also left 4 injured that respond to the names of: Miguel García Coordinator of the Indigenous Guard, Gilberto Nastacuas and Gerardo Nastacuas Indigenous Guards and the Juvenal Torres leader. 
At the same time, the massacre, we are reported by the murder of the indigenous woman Lola Cortes Taicus (16 years old), murdered in the corregimiento of the Guiana, in the municipality of Tumaco, belonging to the indigenous unity of the Awa-Unipa people, sector In which yesterday was flown, the transandino oil pipeline at km 98. 
These facts precedes the assassination of the Awa Ivan Pai Indigenous Guard on Wednesday, November 28. 
Caldas:  Last week we denounce the massacre of the Embera Chamí in the resguardo de San Lorenzo, municipality of Riosucio, Caldas. 
On November 23, Mr. Serafin Days Guevara (63 years), a musician recognized in the region, Mrs. María Gabriela Tapasco (52 years old), Mother of Family and Mr. Cesar Augustus Days Tapasco (33 years old), Academic Coordinator of the Educational institution of San Lorenzo, were murdered in his own house, leaving the daughter and sister of the deceased. 
From the same resguardo, Omar Andrés Gañan Gañan was killed in Bethany, Antioquia on November 29; All belonging to the Indigenous Regional Council of Caldas- Cridec. 
Cauca:  On November 28, Drawer Municipality of Toribio-Resguardo de Tacueyo, the Nasas Indians Gladis Rivera Chapeño, President of the Board of Action and Henry Ulcue Facility, were killed. 
In this municipality on December 1, Aldemar trochez was found in the Verda Belén, via that communicates with the corregimiento of the stick and in the rural area of the municipality of Santander de Quilichao, Vereda Lomitas, the corpses of Yanet Mosquera and Rogelio trochez of 32 and 30 years respectively, in advanced state of decomposition. 
We also denounce the threats to the former governor of the indigenous shelter of female female, Apoline García. 
All those named previously belong to the Association of Northern Indigenous Cabildos of Cauca- cxhab Wala Kiwe-ACIN. 
CORDOVA:  To all this is added, the serious threats to the Government Structure of the Large Cabildo Indigenous Zenú Central Rural, the Gran China, Indigenous Resguardo of Alto San Jorge, Department of Córdoba, in the head of Governor Martín Andrés Fuentes Urango. 
Antioquia:  On November 24 he was a victim of an anti-personnel mine, the young indigenous Luis Humberto Jumí domedo, 21 years old, who was a leg, made in the municipality of Taraza, under the Antioquia Cauca, belonging to the indigenous organization of Antioquia - Oia. 
Today we are living a genocide with our people: massacres, selective murders, threats, attempts for homicide and anti-person mines, for which it is urgently adopting the effective measures of individual and collective protection to the rights of indigenous peoples, the Leaders and relatives of the victims. 
We remember that the Indigenous people Awá, NASA, Embecer Chamí and Zenú are among the 38 indigenous peoples in physical and cultural extermination, declared at Auto 004 2009 by the Constitutional Court of Colombia. 
We demand:  1. 
To the Government of President Iván Duque Márquez and the Judicial and DDHH agencies in coordination with the indigenous authorities, comply with the duty of due diligence and give speed to the investigations that classes clarify, and sanction those who are the material and intellectual authors of All violations of human rights perpetrated against the indigenous peoples described here. 
2. 
We request the international community to conduct a mission to verify the humanitarian situation of indigenous peoples, and in the same way exempt to the national government compliance with their constitutional obligations and guarantee the rights to life, the territory, security and integrity of native populance. 
3. 
We reject the hasties of the commander of the army in the department of Nariño: Giovanny Peréz, who affirmed that the massacre that occurred today against the Awa indigenous authorities were caused by Riñas, implying that it is an isolated situation to the humanitarian crisis in The one who lives in the department of Nariño. 
National Authority of Indigenous Government  Indigenous National Organization of Colombia - Onic  Contacts:  Luis Fernando Arias Arias - Senior Counselor Onic: 3183501737. 
Aida Quilcué Vivas - Director of DDHH Onic: 3107871382. 
Oscar Montero- counseling DDHH Onic: 3114121702. 
EDER Burgos - Coordinator DDHH Bedawari: 3104691109. 
Jaime Caicedo Guanga - Legal Bedawari: 3105455284. 
David Burbano - Indigenous Bedawari communicator: 3203660308. 
Communications and press onIC: 3102593418. 
. 
