Puyo, December 26, 2016  A few hours ago, the intention of the Ecuadorian government to stop indigenous leaders and the Amazon Regional Conféde could be known. 
The cause initiated by the Prosecutor's Office against the President of the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar Centers -fossh-, Agustín Wachapá, arbitrarily detained on the night of December 20, also involves almost a dozen leaders of Pastaza and Morona Santiago. 
In streets and public spaces of both provinces there are no security conditions for leaders: a network of agents and informants have been deployed by the Amazon South Center with the sole purpose of looking for means to incriminate leaders and judicialize them. 
Censorship, defamation and blockade to the information with which the Government acts within the framework of the State of Exception and Militarization, prevents the severity of the conditions, but those who live in their own flesh, we give faithful testimony of the steep here . 
The unjust arrest of six peasants, two professors and the President of FICSH, demonstrate the State of Legal Defense before the violation of fundamental rights and before a system of justice that is an appendix for the government's repressive and criminalization policy. 
In this framework we noticed that what could occur with the leaders of FICSH, Nashe, Nae, Fenash-P, Sarayaku and Conféniae will be of total responsibility for the current regime. 
The consequences that can generate the imprisonment of one of our brothers, the raid to their abode or the amimony to their families and communities using the state of exception, will be total and absolute responsibility of the government and the whole world will know that in Ecuador itself They violate human rights, is prescribed to leaders and destroyed organizations. 
Despite this and fulfilling the mandate of our sovereign people, our work remains firm and unwitting, do not fear to jail and we are traveling the organizations attending to the call of our people and socializing the problem that we live. 
The action of the Government in #Nankints has no precedents in history, military shooting against the Shuar people which decades ago they convicted as heroes of the Cenepa, tanks deployed in territory, helicopters amiming in villagers, raising peasant homes, police chasing leaders, Permanent violations of due process, a police state has been established that apparently will not stop until satisfying the economic interests of their transnational allies to the detriment of the interests of the Shuar people and a growing sector of the Ecuadorian population that has been added at the level Global to reject the belligerent attitude demonstrated by the President of the Republic. 
Governing Council of Conféniae  . 
