Shiwiar communities, Sapara and Kichwas and peoples in isolation affected by new oil tender  Carlos Mazabanda.  Amazon Watch.  Via: Amazon Watch  In the city of Quito, on October 23, 2018, the XIII Annual Energy Meeting, Mining and Oil ENARE 2018 was held, space where government authorities of the Energy, Oil and Mining Area provide national and foreign investment prospects In projects that are considered strategic for the country. 
In this event, in 2012, it was where the Ecuadorian government officialized the tender of 21 oil blocks that make up the so-called "Southeast Round", so it is edition of the event generated great expectation and concern in the indigenous organizations of the Amazon That a new tender of these blocks had been announced. 
One of the central presentations was carried out by Carlos Pérez Minister of Energy and Non-Renewable Natural Resources, entitled "New Energy Scenario in the country and perspectives for 2019," which showed a favorable scenario for investment in hydroelectric projects, miners and Tankers 
Respect for the "Southeast Round," he said that:  "The tender of all the blocks may not be performed as planned to avoid social conflicts to companies; As far as in a change of strategy, 2 blocks will be tended until December, 2 blocks, 86 and 87. 
"  These blocks are located in the province of Pastaza, at the Ecuador - Peru border, so the Minister reported that he will seek to reach an alliance with the neighboring country to use the Norperuan pipeline infrastructure. 
At the end of his presentation, Minister Carlos Pérez, had a press conference where he was asked about the opposition that indigenous organizations maintains for oil exploitation in their territories, this manifested:  "There will be no problems in these blocks because the communities are in other blocks; The impact on communities, in these blocks, is minimal. 
"  However, the maps show the existence of Kichwa communities, Sapara, Shiwiar Achuar and the Parish headboard Río Tigre, in addition, according to the map of presence of isolated villages of the Ministry of Justice (August 2013) in Block 87 is the "Group Nashiño ", which would make the tender of this block break the provisions of the Constitution (Article 57, numeral 21)" (...) The Territories of the Peoples in Voluntary isolation are an unreveructible and intangible ancestral possession, and in them it will be Vedada All kinds of extractive activity. 
(...) "  In the outskirts of the leading event and leaders of the 7 indigenous organizations of the Southern Center of the Amazon, Provinces of Pastaza and Morona Santiago, they delivered a pronouncement and expressed their opposition to the tender of oil blocks in their territories at the same time they pointed out Minister Statements:  "This is going to be an act of genocide and ethnocide, all our territories are busy, Somo Beres we live that we deserve respect; Not to exploitation, oil and mining in our territories, this is the voice of our communities. 
"  With an executive decree it is sought to expand the oil exploitation in the intangible area - Yasuní National Park  In previous weeks, the draft of a presidential decree was filtered into social networks with which the exploitation of the ISHPINGO field of block 43 or called ITT (Ishpingo, Tambococha and Tiputini), will be allowed. 
At the moment, the Tiputiní and Tambochachocha field are located within the limits of the Yasuní National Park (PNY). 
The Ishpingo field is also located in the PNY, but also, in the damping area of the intangible area, area where as established in the Constitution, all kinds of extractive activities are quite, with which it is sought to guarantee the right to Life and self-determination of peoples in isolation Tagaeri - Taromenane. 
Journal Plan V: www. 
PLANV. 
WITH. 
EC.  This Decree seeks to comply with the citizen mandate that in the popular consultation of February 2018 opted for the extension of the intangible area at least 50. 
000 hectares and reduction of oil oil exploitation of 1. 
030 hectares no more than 300 hectares. 
Although the Development Decree establishes the expansion of the intangible area to 54. 
861, 93 hectares, specialists in the situation of the isolation peoples, have questioned the lack of technical livelihood with which the proposal for expansion of the intangible area was held, since it would not have a greater incidence in the protection of the territories of the Villages in isolation and rather it seems that the expansion seeks not to affect oil activities in the area. 
The most worrying point of the Decree is the elimination of the "intangible" character of the damping zone, that is, it is allowed the realization of oil exploitation activities of the Ishpingo field and putting at risk the survival of peoples in isolation and contradictions what raised in the popular consultation with what the reduction of the operation in the PNY is sought. 
The Minister of Hydrocarbons, Carlos Pérez, I assure:  "No problem in that area, the isolated villages are more like the west." 
Declarations that evidence that his position is to ignore the existence of indigenous peoples where oil exploitation is expected. 
This Decree appears when the collective "Yasunidos" reported that in the report made by a commission made up of the current National Electoral Council (CNE) it was determined that 670 should be validated in 2014. 
670 signatures, which should have given rise to a popular consultation for citizens to decide on oil exploitation in the Yasuní National Park, which was denied in the Gobien or Rafael Correa. 
With the results of this report, the Yasunidos collective raises the realization of the popular consultation on the Yasuní in February 2019 when the elections of authorities of sectional governments are planned. 
However, the CNE authorities at the moment have not given a pronouncement in this regard, leaving this issue a mere recognition that rights were violated without seeking the petent and urgent repair actions in the current conjuncture that threatens the Yasuní National Park. 
Minister of the environment tailored to oil interests  A factor that stopped the concretion of this decree is that the then Minister of Environment (E) Humberto Cholango, former president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE), was reluctant to sign this decree and presented its resignation which was not Accepted until December 3, 2018 When President Lenín Moreno announced the appointment as a new minister of the environment to Marcelo Mata. 
The Minister kills developed his career at the public and private sphere linked to the oil and mining sector, for which his appointment has caused a strong reaction in environmental and human rights organizations that have asked for immediate resignation since there is a clear conflict Of interest and its experience is far from what a ministry of the environment requires when the government, through the ministry of hydrocarbons and mining, has shown a clear policy of the expansion of oil and mineral projects in sensitive areas such as the Ecuadorian Amazon. 
Environmental organizations require resignation of the Minister of Environment  The story is repeated, the Yasuní and the indigenous peoples, once at the mercy of oil interests. 
. 
