Sunday Peas and Elvia Dahua, leaders of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon (Confeniae) shared on Friday, April 28, the initiative "Sacred Basins of Napo and Marañón". 
The proposal contemplates the creation of a biocultural sanctuary of these ecosystems, recognized by IUCN as "non-intrusion zone" for the extraction of large-scale resources. 
The project, initially led by the Conféniae and the Inter-Ethnic Development Association of the Peruvian Jungle (AIDEP), has the support of the Alliance Pachamama, Terra Mater and Amazon Watch network. 
The initiative was adopted by La Coica, in March 2017. 
The realization of a large assembly of Amazonian peoples is expected at the end of this year to articulate this proposal. 
The presentation was carried out within the framework of VIII Forum Panamazon, which is carried out in Tarapoto, Peru, and in this the close alliance and collaboration with all the nationalities, peoples and federations of each region between Ecuador-Peru was highlighted. 
Indigenous governance  Based on the approach of indigenous co-governance, promotion of rights and life plans led in the Amazonian territories this process will be developed in the long term in several stages that include: field research, legal and political campaigns, incidence in international markets and opinion public, among others. 
Sunday PEAS: "This project is not recent. 
It arises more than 30 years ago, because all the organizations have been created to defend our nature, culture, language ". 
Photo: The Radio Ship. 
16 Guardian Indigenous Peoples participate: Waorani, Kichwa, Sapara, Achuar, Shuar, Wampisa, Awajún, Shiwiar, Andoas, Candosh, Cocama, Sequoy, Siona and Cofán, Taromenane and Tagaeri, the "Sacred Basins". 
They comply with a fundamental role in the stabilization of global climate warming due to the existence of wetlands. 
The Amazon rainforest has 20 percent of fresh water and oxygen on the planet. 
However, it is in permanent threat by the extractive industries. 
In the afternoon, in the "Parana" program of the radio ship (www. 
pororoca. 
Red), Domingo Peas emphasized: "This proposal is not only for indigenous peoples but for everyone"  For more information on the initiative "Sacred Basins of Napo and Marañón", contact Benito Bonilla: +593 98 260 5071 BenitObonilla @ Terramater. 
EC.  -  With information on the radio ship:  Source: servindi.  . 
