With the support of Tungurahua and Bolívar, the indigenous and peasant movement of Cotopaxi (MICC) prepares a mobilization where they demand a response from the authorities on specific issues and, if not discarded, no indigenous survey. 
Leonidas Iza, president of the MICC, highlighted the unity that exists at this time with the indigenous and peasant organizations of Tungurahua and Bolívar, who were solidarized with Cotopaxi and announced that they will be present at the march announced in this last province. 
Requests  They ask for concrete actions to the authorities against the drought in the central area of Andean of Ecuador, so they propose the redistribution of water throughout the province, in addition to the generation of public spaces for the sale of peasant products, as their main Complaint is the low price paid by the liter of milk to small and medium producers, especially from the most distant communities, who do not receive more than 30 cents when the official price established is 42. 
They demand respect for community transport that is persecuted by the National Police, seek real commitments from the authorities that allow them to work without problems because it is the only means that energizes the economy of the communities. 
They also require decentral treatment and the payment of a fair salary to workers from broocolerele, agroindustrial and floristic companies. 
They also call for an immediate response to the Ecuador Electric Corporation (Celec) on the proposals issued by the Base of MICC organizations regarding the placement of high-voltage towers in Cotopaxi. 
Warning  Iza stated that these orders will be left in all the institutions involved and that expect a response in 30 days, otherwise, in coordination with the Sierra-Central organizations and with the support of ECUARUNARI and Conaie will go to an indigenous uprising. 
Rosa Jerez, president of the indigenous movement of Tungurahua, was sympathened with the situation of Cotopaxi and expressed that the same drawbacks have in his province, so on December 20, they will participate in the mobilization announced in Cotopaxi. 
"What we are looking for is the unity of the entire Sierra-Centro, since the benefit is common because the reality of these peoples is similar and the problems existing," he said. 
Remigio Torombo, president of the Federation of Peasant Organizations of Bolivar, also expressed its support for the MICC and ratified its participation. 
The concentration will be performed on the rail rails at 09:00. 
(VHG)  THE AMOUNT  23 organizations announced their participation for mobilization. 
Photos Organization  . 
