Today, the 18 organizations that are part of the Provincial Union of Cañaris Comunas and Cooperatives (UPCCC), will meet to prepare their participation in the great national march to be held against the policies of the regime, which will initiate from the province of Zamora Chinchipe August 2nd. 
The session will be developed at the headquarters of the organization. 
Anastasio Pichizaca, president of the UPCCC, said that among the leaders of the organizations will analyze the resolutions adopted at the last national assembly regarding the march and add suggestions according to the reality of the province. 
He commented that they also expect a dialogue with the social sector, of the workers, teachers and doctors, who are discontented because some of them were disconnected from their work. 
Pichizaca indicated that at the meeting the participation of each of the bases in the Great National March will be defined, which it calculates would arrive on August 6 to the province of Cañar. 
At its discretion, in this survey you will overcome the number of people who met on May 1, which was 6. 
000 at the provincial level. 
Also, the mayor of Canton Cañar, Belisario Chimborazo, as a member of the Indigenous Bases, noted that it will be added to the great gear organized by the different national organizations, including ECUARUNARI and CONAIE. 
"There is a preliminary agreement between all, supported by the Constitution itself, to express the resistance that at this moment is necessary in the country," he said, by pointing out that they disagree in many things, basically that indigenous peoples at this time are seen Vulnerated in terms of rights, especially in access to education. 
"What was the product of a great historical struggle of indigenous peoples to create their own bilingual intercultural education system, at this time with the only change of intercultural denomination, we are practically seeing how bilingual education disappears in our communities; A process of closing of schools is initiated in the communities that most need, "said Chimborazo. 
(Jm) (i)  . 
