Press release  Salasaca, July 17, 2015   With the busy assistance of the official delegates of the peoples and nationalities, the bases of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador Conaie, his Ordinary Annual Congress began, after the first year of functions of the current Governing Council chaired by Jorge Herrera 
In this Assembly, issues of enormous transcendence for the country are analyzed as are the processes of national mobilization, agricultural, educational, extractive, political issue and many more. 
Welcoming the participants, Baltazar Chiliquinga, governor of the Salasaca village, gave the words of opening, while Manuel Caiza, president of the indigenous movement of Tungurahua MIT, invited everyone to take the best resolutions for the benefit of the bases. 
He also gave his greeting the mayor of the Canton Salasaca, Manuel Caizabanda, while José Villavicencio on behalf of the social sectors, added his message of solidarity and unity with the struggle of Conaie and the Ecuadorian people. 
At the inauguration, Jorge Herrera Morocho, said: "This Government Council has remained firm and will continue to do so. 
We have said not to dialogue and we will maintain this position since it is not possible to dialogue with the impositions that the government tries to put us. 
We can not talk about dialogue when our leaders are being persecuted. 
This Assembly and its bases must define whether we are going to an indefinite unemployment, at a national mobilization or a large uprising. 
Therefore I make a call to discipline, the coherence and commitment of all of you to obtain the best resolutions for the rights of our people. " 
The presidents of the respective regional of the CONAIE presented a general balance of the political and organizational situation of their zones. 
Franco Viteri, by Conféniae, denounced the attempt to boycott this congress by the government seeking to demobilize the Amazonian bases. 
"In the Amazon we have had deaths for mining and that is the outcome of 8 years of citizen revolution. 
We are going to make important decisions for the country, the regional we will welcome the mandate of Conaie, but we must get rid of any attempt to use the indigenous movement for which it is necessary to be self-critical and debug for internally, "he emphasized. 
Carlos Pérez, by ECUARUNARI, greetings from the fraternal organizations of the Unitary Front of Workers, Popular Front, Assembly of South Peoples, among others. 
"Covered in our historical right, we will exercise the free determination of our peoples. 
We maintain our focus on Decree 16, close from our Community Schools and all the anti-popular measures of the Government of Rafael Correa, "he said. 
After submitting the annual report of the Governing Council of CONAIE, Congress continues with the installation of work tables for the areas of Intercultural Education, Agrarian Summit, National Strategies, Pachakutik Movement. 
Conaie / Conféniae Communication  Press contacts: 0983856491/0996145376  . 
