Jorge Herrera Morocho is the current president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conaie. 
It is one of the eight leaders of the indigenous movement that are processed by Ecuadorian-Correl Justice. 
The 8 leaders are added to the list of the more than 120 criminalized by participating in the process of indigenous and popular recruitment of August 2015. 
Jorge Herrera began his trajectory within the organizational processes since his childhood. 
Injustice and social inequality was what bothered him and uncomfortable, that is why he is essential to be organized and defend the rights of peoples, nationalities and nature. 
Jorge Herrera has three daughters (one of age and two minors) and a son (of age). 
His wife accompanies him "in good times and bad". 
Herrera, president of Conaie, each there is free time of the organization is dedicated to work in the field. 
Performs agriculture work in the Wintza sector, via to Sigcho. 
Herrera is part of the Kichwa Panzaleo people. 
It comes from the union of peasant organizations from North Cotopaxi, unocanc. 
In 2005 he was president of the indigenous movement and peasant of Cotopaxi-MICC. 
Prior to the notification of his audience, Jorge, he went to the IACHR to denounce vulnerations to human rights and the free association of indigenous peoples in Ecuador. 
Upon arrival in Ecuador, according to Herrera, he learned that he was again called to another audience. 
He assures that he does not frighten him, because "this (call audiences and criminalize) is a form of intimidating." 
The 8 leaders are accused of the alleged crime of paralysis of public services. 
They will have a formulation hearing on Friday, August 19 at 9:30 in Room 2, of the Judicial Council Complex of the Judiciary of the Proaño General Parish of the Province of Morona Santiago. 
The alleged crime is typified in Article 346 of the Integral Criminal Organic Code (COIP), and is prayed that the penalty can be one to three years in prison. 
Jorge Herrera: "We're not going to go on your knees, we're going to sustain the dignity of the indigenous movement. 
We hope that the judges do justice, have to archive the causes because there is no reason, we have not committed any kind of infractions so that any judge wants us to condemn us. " 
. 
