Small producers, peasants and farmers will be affected; There will be no job because technology will replace labor, etc. 
, exemplified  Jorge Herrera, president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE), referred to the demand for unconstitutionality that will interpret on the multipart agreement signed with the European Union (EU). 
The indigenous leader explained that this is a Free Trade Agreement (TLC) that exposes small producers and farmers to unfair competition for this, they will demand their unconstitutionality. 
"Experiences in the trajectory of Ecuadorian farmers has been, first, promote internal production. 
This has been part of the struggle of the indigenous movement. 
The concern is not only from Conaie, but from the productive sectors, mainly from the medium economy down beaten with this agreement that is, in short, a free trade agreement (TLC), "he insisted. 
The main concern is that "I would leave the production of small rice trees in orphan, the small farms of peasant indigenous families. 
In this case, it would affect, in general, small production. " 
At Criteria de Herrera, the national government "lies in citizens in saying that this commercial agreement is under favorable conditions for Ecuadorian producers. 
Actually it is only an adhesion to the firm they did already in 2012 between Colombia and Peru. 
The effects were that the Colombian producers brothers were beaten and made the agrarian unemployment. " 
"The same thing are doing in Ecuador, that's why they are doing the law of seeds, they did with the law of water and land. 
This is a lie that they are doing things apart and favors Ecuador. 
It is simply an adhesion to that firm that already did Colombia and Peru in its time, when Bolivia did not accept and has not done it until now, "he said. 
At the time of wondering if the country previously learned the points to be negotiated and why a government that, it says, no longer has legitimacy at this time, signing a free trade agreement. 
"The concern is that it is putting us in a disloyal competition. 
A country with a subsidy to farmers and farmers, a country that, according to what we know that we are going to send us the chicken legs and breasts will be in the European market. 
It is put in a disloyal competition, that is why the law of water and land has to do with this, "he said. 
At the time of explaining that, what is going to happen is that those who are going to be favored with this signature are the great agro-exporters and importers of products, which will be the banananes, floriculturists, etc. 
"It will be the least that will guarantee employment, but the experience, European technology, is already machining, that is why they will replace technology with labor". 
"The speech is nice: to give sources of work, create opportunities, but ultimately, what we do clearly, is that great entrepreneurs, agro-exporters are going to be those who have won. 
In this government they have not only won them, but banking; But the concern is that small producers and farmers, peasants and artisans, are going to be unprotected, "he said. 
According to land and water laws, he insisted, this process would be a type of privatization to guarantee large monopolies and leave small producers in bankruptcy. 
"We know that production is coming, for example, milk powder that is at a base of US $ 0. 
25 a US$0. 
27 cents that could liter of milk. 
Those are the information we have, it is not that we are guessing. 
This will annihilate the milk industry because it will enter milk powder. " 
"We will go bankrupt the small producers in general, and not only the peasants in general. 
People do not consider these serious issues because they are experiences that have already been lived. 
That has been seen in several countries and has also affected food sovereignty because they are putting us in a disloyal competition, "he reiterated. 
He also reported that the indigenous sector is building a document on proposals against this topic and will leave it at the National Assembly and Constitutional Court so that the internal production of small producers and food sovereignty are guaranteed. 
"If they have the majority in the legislative they will give the guarantee so that the signing of this treaty will be effective. 
But, we are going to continue working with the subject of demand not to be crossed out of arms, we can not shut up. " 
To reach power, Paco Moncayo will cast down the agreement with the EU? We have specific programmatic axes within the framework of the National Agreement for Change and we are going to discuss the Bureau of Analysis and some mechanisms should be seen. 
He would do in saying that he is going to throw down because he has not yet been talked about the important steps. " 
"The only thing we can say is that it is important that it is done is to guarantee small producers to have the possibility of resurging. 
Because this Government has recognized that it has been with an agrarian debt that the next government has to assume, "he said. 
(JPM)  Source: Radio Sonorama  Taken here  . 
