The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, condates commemoration days under the 25 years of the first indigenous uprising through academic reflections, activities of Inti Raymi national and in base organizations. 
The day is intended to collect information and make a critical look at 25 years of the first uprising. 
Last Thursday, June 11, the event was held at Andina Simón Bolívar University in which they participated as speakers: Dr. 
Luis Macas, Chancoso Blanca, Marc Becker and Stalin Herrera. 
In moderation there was Floresmil Simba, leader of strengthening Conaie. 
The exhibitors counted their different points of view on the first survey. 
Stalin Herrera performed a survey on the importance of the Earth for uprising. 
Breast White Chancoso announced how it was the taking of the Church of the Santo Domingo Square and said that "the uprising of 90 'is not part of from this date, but it would say that there are 523 years of struggle." 
The HSitoriator Marc Becker exhibited on the MovementPachakutik, on the subject of his book. 
And finally, Dr. 
Luis Macas, emphasized that the uprising was a mina between different social, union and left sectors who contribute from different ways into the process. 
For this week, several activities are planned in the framework of the celebration of the 25 years. 
On Wednesday, June 17, the event called "political irruption of the indigenous movement and the conformation of new paradigms in the transformation of the Ecuadorian society" in the Paraninfo "Che Guevara", Faculty of Jurisprudence, Political and Social Sciences of the Central University, of Ecuador. 
On 18 and 19 he carries out the ECUARUARI his annual assembly, in the commemorative festive framework. 
On Friday, 19, the Conaie will deliver the castle to the new Prioste for the year 2016 in the celebration of the Inti Raymi. 
The commemorative events do not stay there. 
El Vierne June 26 will be held an academic event called "We are word and memory: 25 years of the 1990 lifting" in the morning in which they will participate as leading speakers and leaders who participated by the 1990s, academics and others. 
At night at the headquarters of the Conaie (Av Granados and December 6) a tribute will be made to those who participated in the first uprising, and a festive act. 
Young people are not left out of the commemoration days, because for days 27 and 28 they organize the camp with the name "We are the children of the first uprising". 
Inside the agenda they have a symbolic journey through the spaces that walked "our Tayts and Mamas", so on Saturday 27 the tree will be concentrated in the park the tree from 7:00, and from there they will come to the Plaza Santo Domingo and other spaces tours in 90 '. 
Then they will go on foot to the coneie headquarters where they will have an appointment with the Taytas and Mamas and will reflect on the importance of the first survey and a critical analysis on the current situation of the Juventu of the Peoples, Nationalities and Ecuadorian Jueventu. 
The different delegations on Saturday night will present their cultural riches. 
On Sunday morning, there will be an acádemic day and from the half-day artistic presentations. 
The Musical Group Zaruny, from Otavalo will be present in this memorial act. 
. 
