Non-Extractivism, Labor Flexibilization and Neoliberalism  1. 
- Dialogue only among equals  The resolutions reached at the Conaie Annual Assembly (August 23, 2019), which communicate with the decisions adopted by other social organizations, open the way to raise an agenda of struggle that breaks with the passivity of action, and opposite the disintegration of the Multiple struggles fragmented throughout the country. 
The declaration of rupture with the Government is based on the following:  The dialogues were unsuccessful and basically created the illusion of democratic moment; Hiding the progressive assembly of the state project from socialcristian (heterodox neoliberal) and other fractions of the ruling class (orthodox neoliberal). 
The dialogue agenda has been limited to the delivery of second-order public positions as directions, secretariats, etc. 
; Procedure that froze the demands of benefit and rights organizations for majorities. 
The mitigation of the judicialization of the political struggle has only been partial: cases of criminalization continue to leaders [1] and popular fighters, continuing with the criminalization policy that increased by hundreds of companions and companions prey, judicialized, and even, dead (as The courageous Bosco Wisum, José Tendetza and Freddy Taish). 
The main teaching of this period confirms a known fact a long time ago: Government and bourgeois power are not willing to give in if it is not existing force measures that support the demands of the popular field. 
We break the dialogue with the government for the enormous benefits that the bourgeoisie continues to receive through multiple policies of economic reactivation, which do not depend only on "corrupt officials" but are part of the most nerve of economic policy. 
It is clear that this government serves the dominant elites as well as the previous ones, only that without the "left" clothing that its predecessor argued based on social assistance policies. 
In short, we face a transition stage from state belt regulator intervention towards state deregulatory intervention. 
Both strategies are typical of a rich government, but in different contexts: the first at a time of economic boom (where the State had many oil resources that allowed to finance social programs) and the second in a moment of recession of capitalism. 
But finally a transition that does not modify the central: the companies before and now they ensure a very high gain rate based on the state's interventions in the economy, and the mechanisms that the State generates so that the crisis will be paid by the workers and Workers, and not entrepreneurs. 
In this direction, and with sustenance in the clauses stipulated in the letter of intent signed with the IMF and the requirements of entrepreneurs plastered mainly in the Act of Economic Reactivation [2] and the Law for Productive Promotion, Investment Attraction and Generation Employment [3], the Government implemented a set of measures in favor of employers:  1st the linking of representatives of the bourgeoisie in the main positions of the State, among which are the Minister of Finance Richard Martínez (former Chairman of the Ecuadorian Business Committee); The former Foreign Trade Minister Pablo Campana (linked to the Nobis Business Group) and the former Minister of Labor and Current Minister of Atmosphere Raúl Ledesma (linked to agroindustry). 
2nd Tax Reference [4] For large companies that involved the condonation of tax debts to large companies for an amount that could arrive, according to calculations of Sri, to 2. 
355 million dollars, of a total debt of 4. 
Approximately 600 million. 
Which adds to the return of the advancement of income tax (only the Eljuri group was returned 30 million according to SRI data). 
All this while a street merchant must pay timely its rise. 
3º Deregulation and labor precarization that in a wide set of measures, including the flexible use of the weekly hours and the extension of the worker's test period in the company [5]; the legitimization of untimely dismissals to eliminate unions; the legalization of teleworking and exploitation to young people through internships and agreements with companies; labor precarioline on platforms such as Uber, Cabify and Glovo, in shopping centers and call centers; the persecution of informal workers; The absolute lack of guarantee to labor rights in agribusiness, where there are no minimum conditions for the union organization, and the day and salary is determined by the company under the figure of the day, added to a permissive attitude to slave labor as evidence In the Furukawa case. 
And this is finished with a policy of concealment of corruption (lobby) of large private companies, stating that corruption only comes from public officials and ensuring impunity in judgments to great entrepreneurs like Juan Eljuri [6] and Fidel Egas [ 7]. 
Additionally, the Government has launched permanent public campaigns to position the "benefits" of mining and extractivism in large media, such as trade and televistazo, and with the support of government institutions, while advancing the dispossors of territories and the discomfort among the population, among which (and only as an example) can be mentioned:  The imposition of the oil grant of block 28 in the province of Pastaza [8]. 
Conflicts for the start of mining in the areas of the subtropics of the provinces of Cotopaxi and Bolívar, in Intag (on the boundary between the provinces of Imbabura and Pichincha) and in Río Blanco (Molleturo, Azuay Province). 
The beginning of the exploitation phase of mining concessions in the Cordillera del Cóndor and the Shuar territory [9]  The runlings by shrimp companies in the Gulf of Guayaquil and on the island Puna against their workers and against the adjacent communes that, previously, were stripped of their territories. 
The persecution of the leaders of the workers of the banana sector and concealment of the abuse committed in the haciendas. 
Last and no less worrying, we are observing how the State as a whole is part of an advance of conservatism, fascism and the most reactionary common sense, which prepares society for an even more pronounced twist towards the Christian social right, whose More brutal expression is the satanization of the fight for women's rights. 
This neopascism has permeated discourses and public policies criminalizing and distorting the women's struggle agenda, especially from the popular sector, for fundamental rights such as abortion in case of violation, the complaint of femicide and, in general, the fight against the Patriarchy-capitalism. 
This added to a deployment of manifestations with conservative demands: marches as "Pro life" led by the Church, "White marches" against violence, parades "with my children do not get goals" or marches convened by socialcristianism. 
To this is added an apology of institutional violence and racism, with the popularization of security discourse to increase the presence of police repression and leave unresolved the serious social and economic problems of the country [10] and the diffusion of slogans Against the poor migrants to criminalize the presence of foreigners, especially Venezuelans [11]. 
All this, underpinning the turn right with campaigns to discredit the ideas of the left and the communist horizon, confusing it with the regulatory statist intervention. 
In this context, we can not but understand that this political moment, beyond the individual actions of more or less voluntary officials, there is no political decision to unlock the topics, and that the implementation of the Orthodox Neoliberal Program is underway, sustained For the Christian social right and neopascism. 
2. 
- Progressive fighting day and popular field demands  In this scenario, it is time for an action to conquer popular demands, and prevent the reform flattener from passing over the economy of poor households. 
The call to a day of progressive struggle is a strategic slogan to keep popular organizations on their feet, conquer benefits for majorities and motivate in each province to join a protest action of greater forceful. 
Our request for requests contains two types of lawsuits: 1) A set of claims for the immediate term that are related to the most felt of the popular sector in each location; 2) Medium and long-term aspirations to position national lawsuits and structural criticism to neoliberal (orthodox or heterodox) management of capitalism. 
In such virtue, the demands of the indigenous movement, the union movement, the popular organizations, the movement of women and the people in general come together to push a unit program, which, in a non-exhaustive manner, includes:  Interest confrontation to the Neoliberal Agenda:  Entire reversal of the letter of intention with the International Monetary Fund and termination of the privatization attempts of covert public companies in the "concession" figure. 
Faced with extractivism and on the horizon of declaration of metallic mining country:  to. 
Cancellation of the oil concessions of block 28 and mining that is already provoking high conflict in the subtropics, the Austro, the North-Tident and the Amazon South. 
b. 
Research on corruption of private companies to obtain concessions and licenses in extractive industries, and guarantees so that the favorable judgments obtained by the communities in defense of their territorial rights and those of nature are respected. 
Between some witness cases are:  - The historical judgment that protects the River Pietúa from the construction of the Genefron S. Hydroelectric plant. 
A. 
(Santa Clara, Province of Pastaza). 
- The victory of the Huaorani people in the protection action that prevents the oil exploitation of block 22 that protects 180. 
000 Hectares of Amazon rainforest. 
- The protection action that rejects the mining action in the territory of the SinganGoe Cofán Village. 
c. 
Compliance with the agreements between Petroamazonas and the comuneros raised at the Spot of ChonTapunta. 
d. 
Termination of abuses of great shrimp businessmen in the Gulf of Guayaquil and Puna Island. 
In defense of plurinationality:  End of limitations and criminalization to the exercise of indigenous justice, community transport, intercultural bilingual education. 
Investigate the corruption of large private companies:  End to impunity and prosecution to major entrepreneurs linked to cases of corruption, particularly the judicial processes against Juan Eljuri and Fidel Egas. 
Include the lobby and strategic marketing that develop the large foreign corporations and the magnates of the country in the definition of corruption. 
In terms of guarantees for the exercise of the right to work worthy:  File of schedule proposals and flexible work contracts. 
Elimination and sanction to the practice of untimely dismissals for unionized workers, and guarantee of the right of association. 
Guarantee of conditions for the trade union organization in agribusiness, teleworking, part-time contracts, internships, conventions with companies, among digital platform workers, shopping centers and call centers. 
Research and elimination to the persecution of local governments to informal workers (as is the case of the municipalities of Guayaquil, Quito and Cuenca). 
Compliance with the state obligation with retirement workers, equalization of monetary monthly payment of retirement and not through bonds or other extra monetary forms. 
Solution to the request of petitions of Furukawa workers. 
Emergency statement to the culture and solution sector to the demands of the associations of artists and cultural managers. 
Recognition of trade union organizations of broccoli workers. 
Research, sanction and elimination of persecution to the leaders of the workers of the banana sector and the abuses committed in their haciendas and agro-industry. 
Guarantee the work stability of public and private sector workers. 
In defense of small peasant economies  Protection and incentives for peasant family economies. 
Access to low interest loans for small peasant production, forgiving debts to small producers. 
Ecological phytosanitary public policy that allows breaking with the great monopolies of agro toxic. 
Guarantee the guardian of native seeds to peasant and indigenous communities, and elimination of grabbing of seeds in oligopolism companies such as agrochemical and pronate. 
Integral audit on the hoarding of water and fertile land in the hands of agroindustry. 
Redistribution of water and lands suitable for cultivation. 
Start-up of the Agenda of Recognition and Guarantee of Women's Rights:  Decriminalization of abortion in case of violation, as a fundamental human right. 
Comprehensive policy, not only judicial, against femicide, machismo and gender violence, with the allocation of budget and application of the Comprehensive Law against Gender Violence  End of the pregnanting and attack campaign to the rights of women in the popular sector. 
Answers for the crisis of the small producers sector:  In proportion to the condonation of the tax debts of large companies, forgiving debts of poor households acquired for subsistence with credit institutions, with SRI and non-elevation of VAT above 12%. 
Respect for the minimum price of hard corn, rice and milk. 
Comprehensive solution to the problem of intermediaries with field products. 
In defense of the right to education:  Resolution of the serious learning problems of the school system, especially from the school units of the country's poor and the city, before the requirement of an income examination to the university. 
Expansion of the quotas for public universities for admission, the same as it entails the budget allocation that allows strengthening the infrastructure of higher education and establishment of affirmative action policies, indigenous nationalities and afroecuratory nationalities. 
Restoration of the intercultural education system Interestionally, this implies the reopening of community schools and expansion of budget items that enable teachers' work stability. 
Definitive appointment and work stability for public sector teachers at the national level  In defense of public health:  Termination of the millionaires Financial transfers to the private health system and strengthening the infrastructure of the public health system. 
Audit of private insurers and health service providers that were enriched with public funds during the period 2007-2019. 
Payment of State debts to IESS to repower investments in health infrastructure. 
Termination of negotiations and attempts to privatization of social security. 
In defense of the community media  Strict compliance with the Organic Communication Law with regard to the percentage of the radio spectrum of 34% for Community media  Democratization of the concessions of the radio spectrum of the corresponding percentage in the cities. 
3. 
- Unity in action and consequence  Mobilization will allow visibilizing the demands of popular field and will give a horizon to dispersed citizenship, since in recent months there were a series of struggles that failed to articulate a national sheet. 
It is therefore required to recompose the forces of social organizations with measures in fact in each territory and with different forms of struggle, to break the stubbornness of the ruling class and the government. 
The objective is to advance to an action that allows reaching great victories for workers, peasant, popular, women, students, youth, artists, peoples and indigenous nationalities of Ecuador. 
As in previous times, the national government uses the golden instrument to extinguish the popular struggle: divisionist practice and clientele, aggravated by the practice of some directories that from a precarious ideological training are dragged by the government's agenda or that consciously They serve serverly in the agenda of Social Democracy and, even, on the right. 
We do not sell for a plate of lentils, or by millions! The dignity of the peoples is not sold and achieved, both in historical struggles and in the present, thanks to constant mobilization. 
Let's walk from the progressive day of struggle towards a unified declaration of indigenous lifting, a national strike of the union plants and unemployment of the people of popular organizations. 
All to the streets, to stop production and close roads on Tuesday, October 15!  Dialogue between workers and peoples, and fight against government and rich!  Fighting day without lases, Nebots, Morenos or straps!  How the peoples of Ecuador fight: saying-doing, saying-doing, saying-doing, fuck!  To the mold our words, we will fill it with our actions!  "Mama Rosa Elvira and Tayta José María: his fight against Huasipungo germinates in our fight against capitalism"  References and notes at the foot:  [1] Case Cristian Aguinnda, Kichwa Pastaza, charged by company Genefran of alleged crime of intimidation. 
The leaders Marlon Vargas-Conféniae, Cristian Aguinnda-Ponakisc, Antonio Vargas-Kichwa, with previous investigation by the alleged crime of paralization of public services by the fight Piatua. 
[2] Approved on Wednesday, December 27, 2017 at the National Assembly was published on Friday, December 29, 2017 in the Official Register  [3] Published in the official registration 309 of 21-Aug. 
-2018,  [4] The Organic Law for Productive Promotion, Investment Attraction, Generation of Employment and Stability and Fiscal Balance contemplates the period of 90 working days to benefit from the referral of 100% of interest, fines and surcharges and applies to administered tax obligations and / or collected by the SRI  [5] The Government with entrepreneurs within the so-called National Labor Council and Salaries (CNTS) establish three types of workday: the ordinary, 40 hours in five days and 8 hours a day; The special, which will be created with a written agreement and registration in the ministry, with 40 hours that will be fulfilled up to 6 days and could be up to 12 hours a day. 
The 90-day trial time is eliminated and the possibility is left in a new form of "entrepreneurship and new investments" contract. The figure of the eviction can be used and is not considered indoor dismissal for the period of up to 3 years. 
[6] Members of the Eljuri Group were investigated in the Odebrecht case for connections to the National and International Bank Bank, John Pablo Eluri Vintimilla on March 12, 2018, received the notification of a non-abstentive opinion given by the Prosecutor's Office. 
[7] Linked to the case "Notary Cabrera" and washing illicit assets through the Pichincha Bank  [8] On September 7, in the act of government proselytism pro extractivist, during the opening of the school year in the province of Pastaza, in the Heroes School of the Cenepa of the canton Mera the Block Consortium 28, made up of Petroamazonas-Enap Chile and Belaruse , delivered backpacks with the motto "Block Consortium 28" to students, with the presence of the Governor of Pastaza and government authorities. 
[9] Projects Panantza-San Carlos and Mirador Property of Chinese Consortium CRCC-Tongguan Inseestement Company with almost 50000 thousand conceood hectares and the North Fruit Project of the Canadian Swedish company Lundin Gold Corp with 75,000 hectares concessioned. 
[10] The latest COIP reforms, legalize showing faces of detainees in flagrancy which violates the presumption of innocence. 
During the 2015 unemployment, most protesters were reported as flagrant crimes. 
The police are given to the police for the "use of dissuasive force", the police in the Saraguro case demanded this possibility to act against the protesters. 
[11] Requirement of visa to Venezuelan citizens which was repudiated by DDHH organizations worldwide. 
In the first week of established the measure Ecuador received about 2000 applications for humanitarian visa  . 
