On June 21 in more than 12 provinces of the country, mobilizations were made because of the threat of transgenic crops and seeds in Ecuador. 
After the approval of the Act of Agrobiodiversity and Seeds, as well as the veto in favor of transgenic investigative crops in the country, (which was requested by the guideline for two days before completing its mandate) indigenous, peasant and urban organizations We remain united to continue with actions of struggle for food sovereignty, the health of our families and the preservation of our culture of respect in relation to nature. 
In Quito, indigenous, peasant and urban organizations united to the School convened by the fecool in the Plaza Grande in Times of Inti Raymi to continue thanking the harvested abundance and demand that our harvest does not stop, not to be controlled by transnational, or by decisions market 
Severino Sharpi leader of territories of the Conaie invited to be "pollinators of agrobiodiversity" by meeting and multiplying us in the struggle for life and against transgenics because talking about transgenic is to talk about glyphosate, of poisons, death. 
For consumers of the city, for peasants and peasants "he described. 
For this reason, the defense against transgenics will be permanent. 
Together with ECUARUNARI leaders, and urban organizations, Sharupi thanked the convocation made by FECOOL and declared that since the CONEIE is taking measures to act before this unconstitutional law that approves fields of transgenic experimentation. 
We are part of the fight for a transgenic-free Ecuador, Sharupi declared. 
Cotopaxi is declared free of transgenics  For its part, the indigenous and peasant movement of Cotopaxi - MICC held the Inti Raymi along with communities and grassroots organizations. 
From a fair held in San Agustín Square in Latacunga, Leonidas Iza Salazar, president of the MicC declared the province of Cotopaxi free of transgenic seeds. 
At the fair there were agroecological products, handicrafts and seeds, as well as musical groups, dance and a pampamese. 
. 
