The youth of different social sectors of Ecuador, met on Thursday, July 23 at the facilities of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie. 
Several leaders of the base organizations of Conaie, representatives of the student sector, workers and others, arrived at the appointment, for the purpose of unifying the proposals raised from the pepestic and young people, as well as generating strategies for the survey and national unemployment and active participation during the mobilization process. 
On the part of the bases of the Coanie attended the appointment of young people from the provinces: Loja (Corpukis), Azuay (UCIA), CAÑA (UPCCC), Chimborazo (coordinator), Bolívar (FECAB-BRUNARI), Cotopaxi (MICC) , Pichincha (Kayambi), Imbabura (Fici) by the Sierra; SUMBNO (FONAKISE), Pastaza, Morona Santiago (Tundayme-bomboiza-gualaquiza), Zamora Chinchipe (Zamaskijat) and the head of young people from the confidence in the Amazon; Esmeraldas (UOCE) for the coast. 
According to Rumi Yumbay, youth leader of the CONAIE, he mentioned that "unity between the sectors that we are exploited, oppressed, isolated in the different policies of the State must unite". 
He said that the meeting point among young people in the indigenous sector and social organizations is the issue of education. 
"We agree that there are hundreds of young people who can not access higher education, in which the educational model aims to generate technical and cheap labor for the market," he said. 
Edwin Mina, youth leader of ECUARUNARI, emphaised that the process of mobilization that part with the march on August 2, the indigenous survey of the 10th and National People's Compare 13 are actions that are carried out in a coordinated manner between the Organizations And that it is also legitimate. 
The theme that the young people highlighted during the Assembly was the free access to higher education, not at the end of the Cimunitarian schools, the persecution and criminalization and others are left behind the Government. 
Those and young people resolved "strengthening the unitary collective of workers and indigenous-peasant in provincial juvenile provinces and sectors, for mobilizations' days." 
In addition, "participate a Youth Commission by province in the walk to be held from Tundayme as of August 2". 
Also, solidarity with the struggle that sustains the different social sectors related to our cause, secondary students, university students and social organizations arise in one of the resolutions. 
And added that "any type of negotiation or dialogues with the right of government or right outside the government is prohibited"  . 
