On Tuesday, April 7, 2020, by a certain "Health Day" the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE), presented before the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, based in Washington D. 
C. 
, under which it provides for Article 25 of the Regulation of this Agency, the request for several precautionary measures in favor of the inhabitants of Ecuador, doctors and health personnel, relatives of fatalities; and, members of indigenous peoples, nationalities and communities. 
The analysis is carried out from a budget perspective, which according to the constitutional standards must be financed by permanent income, that is, for the taxes we pay, income currency, etc. 
; That is, the values that should be used for the health sector should never be missing, since the percentage of the entire budget is equivalent to 40 percent of the total budget value. 
For exception and whenever it is required, financing should be carried out with non-permanent income, that is, due to the currencies of the sale of oil, assets of the State, royalties of mining, etc. 
The Ecuadorian government, as well as the Ministry of Economy and Finance, have not transpressed information regarding knowing. With what money is paid to health?, It is an almost state and reserved secret. 
But, in addition, the health budget according to the parameter of 0.6 percent established by the Constitution should be framed by approximately 6 billion dollars per year; However, half, that is, 3 billion, but in values established in the accrued budget does not go from 350 million dollars. 
That is, a budget is handled in the formal sector that is only for approval and another, which is executed, being an insignificant value in normal situations for the health sector. 
But it is also glimpsed that the payment of the external debt is privileged above the health, education and justice budgets, as evidenced in the month of March 2020, when 320 million dollars were paid to the global bondholders 2020 and leaving aside the urgency of those resources to meet hospital needs, medical supplies, etc. 
It is also demonstrated by concrete cases that between 2018 and 2019, occasional contracts and provisional appointments of doctors, especially family or first level assistance; When logic should be to strengthen this sector; All at the pretext of generating criteria of "austerity and optimization". 
In the middle of the month of December 2019, the imminence of contagion was known worldwide, by two warnings and alerts of the WHO (World Health Organization), but the authorities of Ecuador, omitted their normative duties, minimizing the impact That would be, and above all, all valuable resources to other acriencias, of which the IMF and Banco World indicated that it is not paid. 
These deliberate omissions have triggered deadly victims, especially in the city of Guayaquil, where the deceased do not even have a dignified burial, only those whose resources are demonstrating, demonstrating an inequality and galloping social inequality. 
For the lack of prevention and protection in medical and health personnel, as well as military and police, the level of contagious has been dramatically raised; Reason for which it is requested are declared to these sectors as priority attention. 
If this situation is catastrophic in the urban sectors, in indigenous territories and jurisdictions is apocalyptic, since by not having water, hospitals, with a high rate of malnutrition; they are doubly vulnerable, so they are self-protectioning, but until the present date has not been issued by the national, local and provincial COE`s, a "protocol" of attention to these sectors, as well as the planning has been demonstrated Budgetary has an intercultural criterion, and but even the authorities of these ancestral organizations participate in the decisions of the entities that handle this crisis, leaving aside the so-called intercultural and plurinational state. 
It is recognized that the collective "popular legal action," submitted a claim for non-compliance with the Constitutional Court of Ecuador, by virtue of not mobilizing economic resources for this emergency; Unfortunately, in the background judgment they decided to inadmit the demand for an improceive. 
Initially, the adoption of precautionary measures, those that were denied initiation were also requested. 
As it is demonstrated that constitutional guarantees, with the exception of habeas corpus is functioning in Ecuador, since the Council of the Judiciary suspended activities throughout the judicial function, which is why the exhaustion of the internal resource has been verified. 
It has been proven that the emergency criteria, irreparable damage and severity of the situation are present, which is why it is justified immediately said request. 
We trust the intervention of the Inter-American Human Rights System, as well as its objectivity; denouncing that these shortcomings have not only been executed by the Government of Lenín Moreno, but for its predecessors, a system that in the previous regime was dismantled and weakened. 
. 
