Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, February 21, 2019  Runakunaka Tawka Watakunatami Ñukanchikpa Mama Shimimanta, Yuyaykunama, Kowsaymanta Makashpa Shamupashkanchik. 
Mana Kunanllachu ñukanchikpaka ñukanchikpa Mama Shimita Yarina Punlla Kapan. 
Pun browsing PUN browsing Mi Mama shi rice play card is three-foot wide. 
The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-CONAIE, on the International Day of the Mother Language and with regard to the proclamation of the UN 2019 as an international year of indigenous languages expresses the following:  The mother tongues are fundamental for the preservation of history, customs, traditions, memory, unique modes of thought, meaning and expression of indigenous peoples in Ecuador and the world. 
In the historical process of transformation of peoples, maternal languages have been one of the fundamental and impeller elements of the different strategies for the struggle for the vindication of the rights of peoples. 
According to the UN There are 370 million indigenous people in the world, in Ecuador inhabit 18 villages and 15 nationalities in which 14 maternal tongues are configured and converged with extreme complexity (A'Ingae, Achuar Chicham, Awap'it, Cha'Palaa, Kiwcha Amazon, Kiwcha Sierra, Paicar, Shimingae, Shiwiar Chicham, Sia Pedee, Shuar Chicham, Tsafiqui, Wao Tero, Zapara); Of these, 8 are at an imminent risk of extinction. 
Linguistic diversity is increasingly threatened with a greater number of languages that disappear, around the world there are 2680 languages at risk. 
In this scenario, Conaie develops constant efforts to strengthen, conserve and boost 14 maternal tongues, therefore, we recognize and greet all nationalities and peoples that in their daily activities use the mother tongue and transmit them from generation to generation. 
It is urgent that States adopt measures to preserve them, revitalize them and promote them, since they are a fundamental part of indigenous peoples, represent another way of seeing the world, they have broad and complex knowledge that have been developed for thousands of years, being essential for The culture and identity of the original peoples. 
His disappearance would constitute a cultural tragedy and a serious violation of human rights. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
