D. 
M. 
Quito, July 19, 2019  Press release  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-CONAIE based on its actions Antiextractivist denounces the start of open-pit mining in Ecuador and the serious environmental risks caused by this activity, therefore, inevitably produces the ecological degradation accompanied by the dispossession of territories and the Vulneration of human rights of indigenous communities suffering from direct impact. 
The Mining Minera Project has provoked military and police intervention, forced evictions, unpunished murders, criminalization and pollution, more than the devastation that will produce in 30 years of activity by deforestation, removal of millions of tons of land, chemical elements and millions of cubic meters of fresh water. 
The ambition and the imposition of capitalist interests have combined in viewpoint by their reserves of 3.18 million tons of copper, 3.39 million ounces of gold and 27.11 million ounces of silver, we arise on environmental consequences and Humanos caused by large-scale mining in Ecuador with the beginning of the Mirador project, the largest open-air mine, in Tundayme, Zamora Chinchipe. 
Let us condemn how the State delivered an area of great biodiversity for mining to Ecuacoriente S. 
A. 
(ECSA), Ecuadorian subsidiary of the Canadian Current Resoupes In, for a period of 30 years, guaranteeing its renewal for the same additional period, the area where the Mirador project is located a fragile and high-biodiversity ecosystem of faunal species, The project is within what is known as a tropical humid forest, both in flora and fauna, the area houses unique, endemic and unknown species that depend on this ecosystem to exist, in addition, micro-basins would be affected (227 water sources ) of the Tundayme and Wawayme rivers that are born in the foothills of the Cordillera del Cóndor. 
Since 2015 Conaie together with social and human rights organizations has denounced how the ECSA company provoked the violent eviction of 32 families (116 people) from the San Marco community, Tundayme Canton, Canton Gualaquiza; and in complicity with state institutions, they took the ancestral territory to the indigenous organization "Cascomi" to give way to mining. 
Faced with this nefarious scenario and the expansion of mining concessions, the application of the new mining policy and delivering to the transnational capital that the national government has promoted, we ratify against the bases and public opinion our antiextractivist position, that is, not to Mining, not to oil exploitation, yes to life, for the defense of the rights of nature, humans and the territories of peoples and nationalities, promoting developmental alternatives that respect the environment. 
The Conaie does not know the supposed agreements between our organization and the company Lowel S. 
A. 
, and rejects the malicious and irresponsible use of our representation for the signing of these documents without validity, which affect our organizational structure and try to delegitimize it, in this case the Shuar Arutam (PSHA) people are affected in the Communities of Warints and Yawi. 
We reject these individual actions and clarify that it does not have the support of the CONAIE, the Governing Council will urgently analyze this actions and take the respective measures by applying the corresponding sanctions, as they go against major collective decisions and the feeling of Our bases for the defense of territories and natural resources will be taken immediate actions against those who are awarded functions and charges to sign on behalf of our organization. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
