D. 
M. 
Quito, July 31, 2019  Press release  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, in the context of the second debate of the reforms to the Integral Criminal Code (CIP), Develop this Thursday, August 1, 2019, is pronounced in favor of the decriminalization of abortion for rape, and He urges the National Assembly to guarantee and protect the rights of women victims of sexual abuse and give way to # abortporviolation. 
We recognize and support the organized struggle of women for the defense and achievement of their rights, the opportunity to achieve abortion for violation will be a historical fact in the permanent dispute by the defense of human and collective rights. 
We can not ignore the raw reality, the statistics indicate that at least seven girls under 14 years of age become pregnant every day and these, six have been victims of sexual violation. 
Faced with this heartbreaking reality and in defense of the human rights of girls and women victims of sexual abuse, the CONAIE supports this struggle for the decriminalization of abortion, advocating so that they can decide with autonomy continue or not, with an involuntary pregnancy and to avoid That thousands of girls are mothers to force each year. 
The "Women's Justice Access Report in Ecuador" presented before the IACHR in March 2018 points out that women criminalized abortion are 100% low economic and impoverished resources, in addition, 69% are young women and adolescents between 14 and 19 years old. 
And, to also demonstrate that the criminalization of abortion is a racialized policy, 40% of women penalized by abortion are Afro Ecuadorian. 
Therefore, there is no doubt that the penalty of abortion is a problem of injustice and social discrimination. 
The decision in relation to abortion for violation can not or should not be taken according to individual morality, but, recognizing that it is a social and public health problem. 
The Fund is that the illegality of abortion allows the realization of clandestine practices that put at risk the life of the poorest and most excluded women. 
Therefore, the National Assembly and with particular responsibility, the Assembly Block of the Pachakutik Plurinational Unit Movement, has the duty to change this reality, assuming a historical role, attached to Ecuador's international human rights obligations for abortion to be Free and safe, guaranteed, with access to education, without prejudice, or violence of any kind; At the same time that the unjust judicialization and criminalization of women for abortion is highlighted. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
