Press release  Riobamba, April 17, 2017  The Governing Council of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conaie assembled in the city of Riobamba, Province of Chimborazo, after several hours of work and analysis on the conjuncture by which the country expresses the following:  Our priority is to maintain and strengthen the unity of the indigenous movement of Ecuador through the work and struggle of its own agenda, reactivating territorial actions. 
The CONAIE is not responsible for the political declarations poured by a personal capacity by some indigenous people. 
The CONAIE prioritizes the execution of the resolutions adopted in its expanded Council carried out on April 11, 2017 in the city of Quito, consequently, any possible dialogue with a Government on a shift and in function will be decided in due course in its organs Regular 
The CONAIE invites the presentation of the precautionary measure against Decree 16 Elevated to Bill called "Organic Code of Citizen Participation and Social Control" that violates the right to freedom of association, the right to free and informed prior consultation, To environmental consultation and collective rights of communes, communities, peoples and indigenous nationalities. 
The precautionary measure will be presented this Tuesday, April 18, 2017, at 08h30, in the Quito Sawroom Room, located on Street Street and December 6 next to the Ministry of Labor. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  Bulletin in PDF.  Deputy Resolutions Expanded Conaie Council April 11, 2017  Resolutions of the Expanded Council CONAIE April 11, 2017  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conaie assembled in Expanded Council, today, Tuesday, April 11, 2017, with the participation of Presidents of Peoples, Nationalities and Authorities of Popular Election agree as follows:  Maintain and strengthen the unity of the indigenous movement of Ecuador through the work and struggle of its own agenda, reactivating territorial actions. 
Implement a process of debate and feedback from the political project of the indigenous movement. 
Democracy is not strengthened with a government emerged without sufficient legitimacy. 
We demand the corresponding public bodies to respond with full transparency the complaints filed against the election results on April 2. 
We demanded the archive of the citizen participation bill presented by the Government, with which it is intended to elevate Decree 16. 
Urgently request precautionary measures and other judicial resources to stop their processing and approval. 
Progressively retake mobilizations at the national level in defense of community territories, collective, labor rights, prior consultation, bilingual intercultural education, food sovereignty, water, democracy and self-determination; as well as, amnesty and pardon for our colleagues and criminalized companions. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  Resolutions in PDF.  . 
