D. 
M. 
Quito, May 1, 2019  Press release  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, CONAIE, by commemorating May 1 as International Workers' Day recognizes the struggle of the working class and vindicates the principle of the Field Unit and the City. 
It summons a day of mass mobilization by the social claim and struggle of workers, as a real tribute for the lives of thousands of companions and fellow fallen in the struggles of workers, peasants, indigenous, women, of youth , diverse struggles in different geographies, so that today we have guaranteed labor rights. 
Indigenous peoples are workers of the countryside and together with the workers of the city we embodied one force, a single fist, a single heart. 
With the application of the latest neoliberal policies of the national government, the country is in economic, political and social crisis being a crucial moment for the defense of our rights and struggle of peoples, to confront the advance of imperialist capital. 
Let us vindicate this historic date with the construction of unity together with the popular sectors, of workers, peasants, students, retirees, ecologists, Montubes, Afro Ecuadorians, mestizos and other historically marginalized sectors. 
In this regard, the Conaie gathered in Expanded Council on Tuesday, April 30, 2019 with the massive and active participation of peoples, nationalities, provincial organizations, as well as its regional: Conféde, Ecuarunari and Conaice resolve:  Maintain political and ideological independence against any government in turn, being consistent to the historical legacy of struggle of the organization. 
Prepare along with the bases a national action as an indigenous movement in articulation with the popular and social sectors of the country against neoliberal economic policies applied by the national government. 
Participate together with its structure in the day of the 1st of May at the national level, according to the realities in each of the territories, based on a unitary platform for the fight for respect for labor rights, in rejection of economic impositions of the IMF, for life and territories, by intercultural bilingual education, indigenous justice, respect for the right to free and informed prior consultation, rejection of the criminalization of social protest, rejection of the high cost of life, rejection of the corruption, rejection of the precarization of labor relations, layoffs from the public sector; and for all collective and individual rights that are being violated by the current regime. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
