D. 
M. 
Quito, July 3, 2019  Press release  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, and its Regional Conféde, reject the formulation of charges to Cristian Aguinnda Pilla, president of the Kichwa people of Santa Clara Ponakicsc, and defender of the Pieta River, today Judicialized by the alleged crime of intimidation, process Started by the manager of the Genefran S hydroelectric company. 
A. 
, in the context of the organization of 22 Kichwas communities of Canton Santa Clara, in Pastaza, for the defense of the Pieta River for the construction of a hydroelectric and favor of the protection of its sacred rivers, which are tourism heritage and water reserve of Ecuador . 
We consider that this judicial process and the formulation of charges with the beginning of the fiscal instruction for ninety days against Cristian Aguinnda, dictated on Tuesday, July 2, by a criminal judge of Pastaza constitutes a clear act of political persecution, intimidation and amimony against Of the social fighters and defenders of nature, promoted by private interests of Genefran S. 
A. 
, to avoid the application of the rights of communities and nature. 
We publicly make our concern about the action of the Prosecutor's Office that presented scarce elements of conviction for the formulation of charges, and we denounce what was raised by the prosecutor with regard to that in the file "there is reserved information" that after verifying with the legal team It was a monitoring police intelligence report (former Senain) since November 2018 to Conaie organizations, conferisons and several indigenous leaders who are indicated as "incitators". 
We alert that systematically continues the persecution of indigenous companions, social leaders, human rights defenders and nature, to process them and sentence them, in order to avoid their rights to demand and defend the territories against extractivist policies that the government National promotes and gives an open letter to private companies without consulting communities, towns and nationalities. 
We communicate to our bases that the struggle for life, by land, by water remains firm and demanded to remain organized against criminalization policies to social fighters. 
The fight goes because it goes!  #Patuaresiste.  By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
