D. 
M. 
Quito, January 28, 2019  Press release  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-CONAIE with its Regional Conféniae, ECUARUNARI and CONAICE condemns and rejects the repression made by the National Police towards the Indians and Peasants of Cotopaxi, who since the dawn on Monday, January 28 were mobilized by the call to Days of resistance in rejection of economic measures and the privatization of the strategic sectors of the country. 
We take responsibility for the national government to encourage facts of violence throughout the day, since the use of the repressive apparatus was evidenced, such as infiltrating agents to pursue and intimidate indigenous leaders and leaders and provoke protesters, which derived in clashes, with A balance of 4 detainees and dozens of wounded, between elders and women. 
The CONAIE fully identified the infiltrated agents and retained one of them, guaranteeing their physical integrity, as a pressure measure to achieve the exchange with the indigenous companions detained, a process that took successfully between the parties. 
We announced the success of the massive mobilization and courage carried out by the indigenous and peasant movement of Cotopaxi - MICC, together with the strong resistance of the Conaie, which is as a result of local agreements for the benefit of Cotopaxi communities, such as the answer Immediate to the problem of milk production and price, no more reuse of serum, solution to the problem of community transport, among others. 
However, we ratify the resistance days in rejection of neoliberal and antipopular policies, economic measures, increasing the price of fuels, privatizations of the country's strategic sectors, new oil and hydroelectric mining concessions, the criminalization of the Indigenous justice, among other announced points. 
Therefore, the CONAIE remains on permanent mobilization and announces its participation in the national mobilization of Wednesday, January 30, together with students, carriers, universities, workers, social organizations, farmers, retirees, artisans, doctors and all popular sectors Affected by government decisions. 
Long live the fight, live the organization, live the unit of the countryside and the city!  Conaie communication  . 
