The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, based on the official information issued from the Ministry of Health, which so far, confirms the existence of seven positive cases of Covid-19, the Epidemiological Entrance extended to 177 people in Guayaquil; respecting the recommendations and protocols of prevention of contagion, announces the decision to suspend the agenda scheduled for Manabí (06, 07 March) Guayas (March 11), and the Gold (March 18) that had the purpose of carrying out the Parliament of the Peoples We believe that this decision is responsible with citizenship to prevent and avoid risks. 
Our fraternal gratitude to all organizations, social sectors, workers, students, fishing sector, artisans, neighborhoods, women's organizations for the opening, organization and predisposition shown for the realization and participation in the Parliament of the Peoples, new will be scheduled Dates for the installation of the planned agenda, consistent with our slogan of walking in territory building true unit. 
At the same time, Conaie calls on the corresponding authorities and ministries to extreme precautions to avoid more contagions and optimize the protocols to follow before this type of outbreaks, at the level of Latin America the presence of the new Coronavirus has already been confirmed in Brazil, Ecuador, Mexico and the Dominican Republic. 
Ecuador became the Latin American nation with the largest number of contagions, context that questions whether Ecuador's public health system is prepared to address this situation. 
Until March 2, there are 89. 
000 infected and 3. 
000 deceased worldwide. 
We call the citizens to stay informed by official communication channels as well as the search for accurate and scientifically supported information about the behaviors to be taken, we request responsible and ethical management of the information circulating in social networks, avoiding the generation of false information and decontextualized or who attempts to the right of privacy of people, the media permanently disseminate accurate data and prevention measures without scandalizing or alarming public opinion. 
Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
