D. 
M. 
, Quito, May 142020  The neoliberal adjustment driven by the country's economic elites has been giving for several years in Ecuador, social costs are not interested for these economic groups that only seek to maintain their profit rate at any cost, even on life. 
In October 2019, the decent people and fighter with indigenous and popular uprising managed to stop the neoliberal attack, however, now taking advantage of the health crisis by Covid-19, not because of it, it is sought to impose a series of deadly blows to the Economy of popular classes and benefit business and financial elites. 
The Government came with its adjustment policy since 2017, the budget reduction of public health has been more than USD 300 million, 34% in three years, this was the cause of the disastrous management of the health crisis and the Thousands of deaths suffered by the Ecuadorian people; Do not be lied to the country, the neoliberal adjustment is not because of the pandemic, it is because of the pressure of the elites that take advantage of the confinement scenario and obvious economic deterioration to impose the adjustment measures that have driven with insistently. 
The aforementioned economic adjustment policy is so absurd while you won USD 4. 
500 million to the large groups of power (EGAS, Eljuri, Lasso, Noboa) that concentrate more than 500 companies in the country and represent about 44% of GDP with profits of close USD 103 billion, they intend to remove subsidies and move to the Peasants, indigenous and workers Payment of the crisis. 
Now the Government aims to impose the laws of "Public Finance Organization and Humanitarian Law". 
The so-called Public Finance Ordering Act is a requirement marked by the IMF within the agreement agreed in March of last year to obtain a credit for USD 4. 
200 million dollars, this project was already rejected by the National Assembly in November of last year and ordered its file (economic growth law), mainly proposes unconstitutional reform because violent the status of autonomy that social security institutions have, Public banking and gad's. 
With respect to the badly called "Humanitarian Law", it is intended to create a tax on labor disguised, in which the working class is intended to contribute more than 60% of the cost of crisis and galloping corruption that the State lives . 
Our position is clear, that the crisis are paid by the most have the 500 largest companies in the country, urges a redistribution of wealth to get the country forward. 
With this we call the block of the Pachakutik-MUPP plurinational unit movement, as well as the assemblymen of other benches that are identified with the popular struggle and respect for the labor rights of the Ecuadorians, to maintain a firm position in the National Assembly, be consistent with the struggle of the peoples, with the lives that were lost in October and rejecting all the neoliberal attack against the people, we urge that their vote be a non-forceful laws and be always on the side of indigenous peoples, Peasants and workers. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
