D. 
M. 
Quito, May 22, 2019  Press release  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, rejects the Executive Decree 751, from May 21, 2019, by which the delimitation of the Yasuní Tagaeri Tagaeri (Zitt) is modified and allows hydrocarbon exploitation in blocks 31 and 43 In the damping area. 
The National Government through the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Energy and Non-Renewable Natural Resources is again mocking the citizen will expressed in the popular consultation of February 4, 2018, which with 67.6% said yes to save The Yasuní, the indigenous peoples and their ecosystems, approved reduce the extension of oil exploitation by 300 hectares and extend the protection zone to safeguard the life and human rights of the peoples in isolation Tagaeri Taromenane. 
However, in total contradiction and for the convenience of oil companies with Decree 751 arbitrarily authorizes the hydrocarbon exploitation in the buffer zone which is a fundamental area for the lives of indigenous peoples and the preservation of the enormous biodiversity of Yasuní ITT. 
In this way, the National Government demonstrates its indifference and puts at risk the Yasuní National Park, the Life and Rights of Peoples in Voluntary Isolation and Ancestral Waorani Communities that are owners of this territory. 
Together with the agreements and delivery to the IMF, the implementation of the new mining policy and labor reforms, among others, is no longer surprising that the devastation of territories with extractive policies over the life and rights of nature be privileged. 
The governs is staining the popular mandate of 70% of Ecuadorians that we express ourselves in favor of protecting the peoples in isolation Tagaeri and Taromenane and not to decrease the protection of the Yasuní. 
Allowing oil development in the intangible area is to contradict the popular mandate and put again in serious risk to the isolated peoples and the biodiversity of the Yasuní. 
The construction of roads, drilling platforms, presence of strangers in the intangible area is to duplicate what is already happening in other areas of the Yasuní where they have become serious confrontations between the local population and the isolated towns, causing deep social conflicts. 
Faced with this panorama and against the Neoliberal LA CONAIE with towns and nationalities, they are preparing a national mobilization in articulation with the country's popular and social sectors against neoliberal economic policies applied by the national government with the aim of maintaining resistance without truce for the defense of life, natural resources, human and collective rights, territories, labor rights; For only the active struggle will stop these policies of damage, extermination, privatization, contamination and impoverishment. 
The fight goes because it goes!   By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
