https://twitter.com 
COM / CONAIE_Ecuador / Status / 1242497530837053440? S = 20  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE) has urged the Government to suspend the payment of the external debt and allocates these resources to the health emergency by the COVID-19, the Organization reported Tuesday. 
In a statement facilitated by indigenous leadership, an agreement is disclosed after the celebration on Monday of a political council through digital platforms, in which leaders of the different regional indigenous confederations participated. 
"We urge the national government to suspend the payment of the external debt, since it is a priority to allocate these economic resources to meet the needs of the crisis in the Emergency of Covid-19," says the first point of the document. . 
It also urges the executive to reactivate cooperation and envelope agreements, medicines and specialized personnel, especially with Cuba, China and Russia. 
The CONAIE also calls on a moratorium on the payment of credits and microcredits with public and private banking, savings cooperatives and other financial institutions as long as the emergency is prolonged. 
In parallel, it requires that "food security be considered as a priority" and asks the immediate creation of an emergency fund allocated to the Government "Buy peasant production and reach the popular sectors as a form of food subsidy." 
It stands out, in that sense, that 85% of food consumed daily by the Ecuadorian population come from the work of about 3 million peasants, in plots of less than five hectares. 
The indigenous direction urges the authorities, through the Ministry of Labor, to avoid the work precario that derives from the exceptional situation in the field and the city. 
The agreement condemns "all political and proselytizing use of this crisis" and progresses that "communes, communities, peoples and nationalities will establish control points in each of the territories to prevent the income of people outside their spaces." 
On the other hand, they reject "the pretensions of hydroelectric companies, logging, oil and mining companies, which, taking advantage of this health crisis and social demobilization, aim to expand their borders of action to the detriment of the life and integrity of indigenous territories." 
And requires the Ministry of Education to evaluate the relevance of virtual classes to students, especially in the rural sector, which "must go out to the cities in search and internet", following the coverage deficit in certain sectors. 
Indigenous leadership concludes asking the community media to continue supporting the #quedateencasa campaign, particularly in rural and community areas. 
Ecuador is under health emergency state by Covid-19 for more than a week and registers 1. 
049 cases of contagion and 27 deceased, according to the latest official data. 
Via Efe.     . 
