Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, February 21, 2017  Conaie, as a legitimate representative of communes, towns and nationalities, and faithful to our history of fighting economic and political powers, both to those before and those of now, convinced anti-imperialists, be American, Chinese or European, and coherent With our commitment in the defense of the oppressed and exploited peoples, before the last events raised after the unofficial electoral results we say the following:  Beyond what determines the Constitution and laws, in practice, electoral processes are controlled by those who have economic power (bankers and entrepreneurs) and politician (the government that controls the State and a good part of the media) Leaving little or no space for the independent organized social sectors. 
This reality ultimately harms democracy. 
In this last electoral process it was more than evident that the political organizations opposed to both the old (I believe, psc) and the new power groups (AP) participate in conditions of political disadvantage and with strong economic limitations, and in the midst of a Polarization between the rights of this country. 
Added more than 10 years of an orchestrated policy from the government against indigenous, popular and social organizations and movements. 
The allegations of possible elements of fraud are added to this reality. 
The counting count for assemblymen both provincially and national, as well, for Andean parliamentarians, several irregularities have been presented in the provinces; Votes that disappear or candidates that being first, suddenly are last or even out of all possibility. 
From the CONAIE we denounce these irregularities that violate the political rights of citizens, peoples and nationalities and we demand that all the complaints presented, otherwise, the electoral process will lack legitimacy and that would very seriously injure democracy. 
Respect for the will of the people expressed in the polls should be an essential condition for good health of all democracy. 
Faced with the possibility or not of a second round in the presidential elections, the National Electoral Council must be entirely transparent and clarify any complaint that puts doubts in the results and management of the process. 
Whether there is or not a second round officially, and whatever the government in the next period, our struggle are clear. 
Conaie welcoming her struggle story rejects both the old right (I think and psc) as well as the new elites grouped in AP since they do not represent the interests of peoples and nationalities. 
Our struggle are:  Defense and construction of a real democracy  By an equitable economy  Mining and oil moratorium and the beginning of a process of national debate on non-extractivist economic models. 
Amnesty the social fighters processed and imprisoned  The real construction of the plurinationality  Agrarian reform and democratization of water management  Free admission to universities and reconstitution of the Bilingual Intercultural Education System. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
