D. 
M, Quito, March 25, 2019  Press release  "To the river that everything starts, everyone calls him violent,  But nobody called violent to the bed that oppresses it. 
"  Bertolt Brecht. 
The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, CONAIE, we raise our support and fraternity to the "Indigena National Muff, Peasant and Popular with Cauca - Colombia" as well as we ratify our solidarity and condemn the massacre of Daua on March 21, Fact that has collected the lives of 8 brothers and indigenous brothers of the Waunan Peoples, Embera, NASA and the more than 50 community leaders and authorities wounded by the confrontations with the Colombian Public Force. 
The Colombian people have rid for more than 50 years an inclaudicable struggle for the construction of a true peace, in permanent dispute against the historical predominance of the bourgeois elite and paramilitary who have ruled and continue in power in the brother country, hindering the mechanisms For the restoration of truth and justice (JEP) and non-compliance with the peace agreement between the National Government and the Farc-EP, a process that led, in the last 2 years, the systematic assassination of 600 indigenous, Afro-descendant leadership, Peasants and trade unionists who were in the midst of this war. 
We support your struggle for the defense of the territories against the energy mining policy, the defense and guarantees for peace, the recognition of the peasant as a subject of rights, the recognition of peasant reserve areas, the dismantling of paramilitarism, the enforcement in The fulfillment of the peace agreements between the State and the FARC-EP, the restoration of dialogue with the ELN, and the end of the war as an ethical and political imperative of the right to live in peace. 
His struggle, it is also our struggle and we united us to advance and establishment on our continent of right governments. 
We interprete to the Colombian State to slow down the mechanisms of criminalization and persecution to indigenous leaders, social and popular organizations, which in complicity with the media have delegitimized the social struggle of the indigenous national Muff. 
We demand respect for the right to free association, to the exercise of social protest, the right to resistance, to the non-repetition of war and at the end of State terrorism. 
Companions and companions The only thing that divides us is a line, that of the map, we are still linked, never on their knees for the defense of our territories and our dignity. 
Long live the indigenous, peasant and popular Muff.  Always standing in never fighting knees, fuck!   Conaie Communication  . 
