D. 
M. 
Quito, July 26, 2019  Press release  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, CONAIE, by its deep commitment to the defense of life and peace, is sympathetized with the brother Colombian people for the murder of indigenous leaders, peasants and trade unionists, victims of systematic violence by paramilitary groups in complicity with the Colombian State; and joins the unit of unity of this Friday July 26 for the defense of life, the cessation of violence and the requirement of guarantees and protection to social leaders and leadership and their communities. 
According to the Institute for Studies for Development and Peace (UNDAPEZ), in its latest report, "Between January 1, 2016 and May 20, 2019 (2 years, 4 months and 19 days), 837 social leaders and Human rights defenders and former FARC combatants were killed throughout Colombia. " 
The Colombian people have rid for more than 50 years an inclaudable struggle for the construction of a true peace, in permanent dispute against the historical predominance of the bourgeois elite and paramilitary who have ruled and continue in power, hindering the mechanisms for the restoration of Truth and justice (JEP) and non-compliance with the peace agreement between the National Government and the Farc-EP, a process that led, in recent years, to the systematic murder of more than 800 social, indigenous, Afro-descendant, peasants and Trade unionists who were in the midst of this war. 
Faced with this struggle for the non-repetition of the war, the indigenous peoples and nationalities of Ecuador support the mobilization of this July 26, 2019 at the national and international level, and we demand the Colombian government to end the State Terrorism that has left 262 . 
197 dead, with a total of 94. 
754 deaths of which are attributed to paramilitaries, 35. 
683 and 9. 
804 to State Agents, as indicated by the Memory Observatory and conflict of the CNMH. 
The end of war must be ethical and political imperative of the right to live in peace. 
His struggle, is also our struggle. 
# July26elgrito.  Long live the unity and resistance of the brothers peoples!  By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
