Bulletin  D. 
M. 
Quito, December 19, 2018  The National Assembly of Ecuador approved this Tuesday, December 18, the reforms to the Organic Communication Law (LOC) with 75 votes in favor in its session No. 563. 
Since the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador - CONAIE we strongly reject this approved regulation, since there were last-minute changes in the final report, transferring to pressures promoted by the Economic Power Groups and Representatives of Communication Monopolies. 
The reform made to article 106 on the tripartite distribution is clear shown in negotiation with business interests to the detriment of the democratization of the radio spectrum. 
The unification of public and private media to 66% of the radio spectrum is the imminent passage to privatization. 
The incorporation of the reform so that the Community media reach up to 34% remains all responsibility for the State and the Government of the obligation to create new media for communes, communities, peoples, nationalities and social organizations. 
The approach of the direct allocation of frequencies for the peoples and nationalities was based on international regulations and the same Constitution as a measure of historical repair by the right to communicate. 
The last minute change made to the final report containing the reforms to the Organic Communication Law (LOC), prepared by the Commission on Collective Rights, on the modalities of award, which indicates "Direct Assignment of Frequency for Public Media , private and community "plasma the wrong vision that the radio spectrum is infinite. 
Automatic renewal does not guarantee employment, on the contrary, guarantees the concentration of the radio spectrum in a few hands, generating monopolies. 
The inclusion of universities, both private and public, in the definition of community media, ratifies the fact of limiting and booting the creation of new community media for communes, communities, peoples and nationalities, and means putting on the paternalistic vision. 
Of insurance will leave the voices of the country alliance, as well as made the first president, to point out that there are progress for peoples and nationalities because the participation of representatives within the Cordicom is included, that the radio spectrum reaches for all, followed by a number of rhetoric and scripts in order to appease existing nonconformity and divert public opinion. 
The peoples and nationalities are not puppets or mockery of any government in turn, we will not be used for the accommodation of the dominant sector and the subsistence of a government of alleged left. 
It is unprecedented to think that hundreds of organizations have been received, to the indigenous movement, the Rapporteurs of Freedom of Expression of the UN and IACHR in the Commission on Collective Rights and then yield to changes that were never discussed and noticed. 
Assemblyman Jorge Corozo, president of the Commission on Collective Rights, has no repaire in lying to people, that is why we warned him and the entire National Assembly that do not play with the dignity of the people and the sector that has historically been beaten. 
Jorge Corozo will go down to history as the worst Assemblyman. Having betrayed the democratic participation of the Ecuadorian people. 
The Christmas basket for the impoverished sector of the field and the city began this December 18 with a communication law that returns to the past, not only to the past 10 years, but to the past of the neoliberal era; And with the announcement of the elimination of the subsidy of extra gasoline and ecopaís, an economic measure that will affect the majority of the Ecuadorian population, while the corruption monies have not recovered a single penny. 
We call on the unity of peoples, nationalities and all social organizations and popular sectors. 
We say to the national government that the year 2019 will not be the same dialogue history without results and decisions outside the people, we will be in the streets how many times it is necessary to enforce our rights and the historical conquests of the indigenous movement and the popular sectors of the Ecuador. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
