D. 
M. 
Quito, March 21, 2019  Press release  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador - Conaie, for the 2019 Sectional Elections, Express:  1. 
- Ecuadorian society expects its institutions to be strengthened and that the electoral process on Sunday, March 24 reflects the will of the Ecuadorians who will be expressed at the polls. 
2. 
- This electoral process is unprecedented and of great complexity, because it requires the decisions of the National Electoral Council (CNE) to remain transparent and conform to the current legal framework and the ethical and democratic values of Ecuadorians. 
In addition, to the expectations of political actors, candidates and political organizations. 
We will see together with citizens so that this electoral process develops transparently in all its phases. 
3. 
- The rules with which Ecuadorians were convened to the elections, of this Sunday, March 24, are clearly defined in the Code of Democracy and express regulations. 
Approve a regulation a few days for Ecuadorians to go to the polls, it does not contribute to deliver certainties, clear signs and complete information and much less to the institutionalization we demand. 
4. 
- The CNE acts in compliance with the national and international standards in force and its maximum function is to guarantee transparency in the elections, with a neutral position, regardless of the trends that are aroused in the population; The debates of the validity or permanence of a state organ do not correspond. 
5. 
- The main function of a regulation is to clarify or viable the process of compliance with a higher standard. 
In this case, those established in the Constitution and the Code of Democracy are absolutely clear to guarantee a transparent process; issuing a regulation at this time would mean hindering the electoral process that is on the eve of being done  The Ecuador 2019 sectional elections must be directed to the consolidation of the democratic system through an electoral process that respects its legitimacy and legality, the CNE has a huge responsibility to guarantee the democratic values of our society. 
Conaie Communication  . 
