Press release  Cochabamba, Bolivia, November 18, 2016  With the commitment and hope of building tissues, sustaining the internationally walked processes between indigenous peoples and communication processes, the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, decided to participate in the III Continental Indigenous Communication Summit of ABYA Yala that occurred in Tiquipaya, Bolivia from 15 to 19 November 2016. 
As well as ECUARUNARI with its president, Carlos Pérez Guarkambel, next to his baseballs Kayambi, Karanki and Foa. 
Since the beginning of the summit, CONAIE tried to reach the sensitivity of the brothers and sisters of the Pact of Unity by Bolivia and representatives of whom we have been undertaking this type of proceedings, for the sake of unity to reach an agreement. 
Between panelists of the summit it was Ricardo Ulcuango, spokesman for the Ecuadorian government. 
Despite repairing, or attempts, the meaning of the summit was from government to government (in relation to Ecuador) inevitable and impossible thing to change. 
The processes of each country are different. 
We respect the context by which the indigenous organizations of Bolivia and their relationship with the Government go through. 
In Ecuador our situation is different. 
Reason why, under the principles of the indigenous movement of Ecuador, we join the Autonomous Bureau that was established within the Summit to strengthen processes and consolidate the principles, the character and the continental meetings of the peoples and processes of indigenous communication. 
The result of this we have signed the declaration that we have called it "the summit is of the peoples and not of the States", document in which we have drawn the way forward in the coming years. 
Therefore, we invite the indigenous and social organizations of Bolivia and members of the Follow-up Commission from different countries to reflection beyond the junctions. 
We urge you to continue working for the unity of indigenous peoples and communication processes of ABYA YALA. 
By the Governing Council  Pedro Tankamash  Conaie communication  PDF Bulletin  Declaratory pdf.  . 
