Interview with Jorge Herrera, president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, within the framework of the 25th anniversary of the first indigenous uprising in Ecuador  Mª Cruz Tornay.  25 years ago, the world was preparing to celebrate the five hundred years of the so-called "meeting" between two worlds. 
Five centuries after the start of colonial domination, indigenous populations continued to undergo exploitation in large haciendas and registered the highest rates of poverty, aggravated by the imposition of neoliberal policies. 
The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE) convened the mobilization that territorially and organically articulated peoples and nationalities under a class speech linked to the ethnic, critical with the state model. 
In the first days of June 1990, thousands of men and women marched from the indigenous communities of the Amazon and the Sierra Andina under the slogan "mandate for the defense of life and the rights of indigenous nationalities", accompanied by slogans As "neither a hacienda for 1992", in allusion to the properties in which they were wildly exploited. 
In those days they took the churches sent to raise centuries before the colonizers and demonstrated the mestizos the strength of an heir movement of historical leaders such as Dolores Cacuango or Transit Amaguaña. 
To this insurrection followed other revolts that ended up lying around several governments and began a decade in which historical surveys were taken over the continent. 
Not in vain, the celebrations of the Inti Raymi dedicated to honoring the fertility of the Pacha Mama accompanied the days of protests by marking the "flowering" of the popular struggles, according to the protagonists. 
The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador celebrates this anniversary with the look at the struggles, in the context of a state model that only recognizes them in the legal, and predicts new conflicts because of the extractivist policies that are attacking their territories. 
- The indigenous movement celebrates the anniversary of the first uprising in Ecuador. 
How do you remember that historical date, 25 years later?  - The lifting was a product of internal struggles, of discontent by so much discrimination, racism and human rights violations, since the indigenous people, within the great haciendas, were considered animals. 
In 90, the indigenous people become an object to a political subject of incidence within state decisions and policies. 
The uprising occurred to make a vindication of the peoples and nationalities, but also to build a political project. 
It was necessary to constitute a multinational and intercultural state where these diverse peoples were recognized in the legal structure of the State. 
- What was achieved with these mobilizations?  - In the last Constituent Assembly of 2008, the 14 nationalities and 18 peoples of Ecuador were recognized. 
The oppressed and forgotten peoples by the rulers went to have fundamental rights. 
The right to bilingual intercultural education was required and exercising the mother tongue, the Kichwa. 
But in these 25 years, the indigenous movement, as an active social entity in the struggle processes, has had to be critical to different models of development and government, and, thanks to the protests, corrupt governments such as Abdalá have fallen Bucaram or that of Lucio Gutiérrez, and the Free Trade Agreement that was wanted to sign with the United States has been discarded. 
These struggles have had to be done throughout the country, but also all over the world, with the convocation of debates to build political political alternatives that aimed this save humanity, respecting nature. 
At the age of 25, the base organizations of the Conaie look at new strategies. 
We continue in this fight claiming fundamental rights, but also demanding a new development model in Ecuador. 
- The definition of the Ecuadorian State as a plurinational status was one of the main conquests of the movement. 
What has this meant for indigenous peoples and for the country as a whole?  - In Ecuador we lived with an apparently left government that has been a product of the social struggles that have been given in the country. 
It is not a government that came participating in these struggles, but, very opportunely, it appeared grabbing the speech of social movements. 
At that time, we demand the new constituent and was accepted. 
We demand the plurinational and intercultural state as the way for a profound structural and economic change, which meant a revolutionary proposal, obviously. 
But after the first period, the current regime was accommodating the right-right capitalist sector. 
If we evaluate how much progress has been made in the rights gained in the history of the indigenous movement, we see that there have been setbacks and that is why confrontations are given today in Ecuadorian society. 
Instead of sustaining the diversity of cultures in Ecuador and biodiversity, rather it has been against the rights of indigenous peoples and nature, as is the case, among others, of the exploitation of the Yasuní. 
- How has the relationship between the indigenous movement and the citizen revolution been?  - Rather, there has been no relationship. 
At first we propose a governance policy in the construction of the plurinational State, but this proposal has not been respected or demonstrated in real events. 
For this reason, we have stopped having approaches and we have dedicated ourselves to strengthening the basic organizations and those of civil society. 
- What are the issues facing the indigenous movement and the government of Rafael Correa?  - In the framework of the proposal of the new Constitution, the redistribution of the strategic elements is recognized to guarantee food sovereignty. 
But the Land and Water Law posed by the Government in the change of productive matrix is designed as a response to the interests of transnational corporations. 
On the other hand, the signature of the Free Trade Agreement with the European Union attentive against the peace and safety of our peoples. 
This implies that there will be larger disconents and struggles for the imposition of extractivist companies, related to mines, oil and logging. 
- The laws of inheritance and surplus value have generated mobilizations in various cities of the country in recent weeks. 
What is the position of the CONAIE?  - Prior to the law of inheritance, a law on tariffs with safeguards policy that apparently affected 2 was approved. 
800 products and was not going to harm peasant producers or the middle class, but the reality is that it did. 
This law of inheritance affects the majority of the Ecuadorian population, it is not true that it goes only to two percent. 
It is a cheat measure, and this has also been done with the Land and Water Law. 
These measures that have been done sequentially respond to tax models taken from a European model, which is not coherent to Ecuador. 
That is why we are going to continue insisting on the struggles that allow them to rethink thematic axes to seek peace and political stability. 
- Do not fear that the opposition to government policies is interpreted as an approach to the sectors against those who fought in the 90s?  That is evident. 
We can not rule out that these right-wing matches have interest and are looking at the 2017 elections. 
There goes the ability of our proposal, which has to go beyond seeing or choosing a candidate. 
You have to discuss the proposals and raise the alternative of a different government. 
Our struggle is not directed to provoke government instability or play on the right. 
We will follow the constant struggle to claim rights, with great interest in the debate on the agrarian model that allows a profound reform in the country. 
Mª Cruz Tornay is part of the Townroom Editorial Council - Information and Debate Magazine. 
He currently resides in Quito (Ecuador). 
Original source Text: http: // www. 
Miscellaneous. 
org/?p=19577
. 
