Greet you all the Ecuadorians and Ecuadorian of the country. 
Companions of communities, towns and indigenous nationalities. 
In my quality as youth leader of the CONAIE we reject what manifested by President Lenín Moreno who with arrogance and in a national chain on January 20, 2020, he pretended to present himself as a democratic man, peaceful and try to deny his responsibility in front of the Ecuadorian people . 
In this sense, we manifest as Conaie that the IACHR report clearly gives us the reason about what happened in October. 
This because the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights - IACHR, on January 14, 2020, issued its report on what happened during the 11 days of indigenous uprising and the national unemployment of the month of last year. 
In the CIDH report, it establishes 11 recommendations for the Ecuadorian State. 
Among them highlight four fundamental aspects:  1. 
Rising and social protest was for an antipopular measure adopted by the National Government of Lenin Moreno. 
As was the unilateral decision, to eliminate subsidies to fuels, through the expedition of Decree No. 883. 
2. 
It recognizes that there was an improper and disproportionate use of force through the public force against protesters. 
3. 
Urges Ecuadorian state to an investigation and a comprehensive repair plan to victims of national unemployment. 
4. 
Respect the right to social protest. 
In this sense, the report of this international ddhh agency, points out that there was excessive use of force in repression, but the government denies its responsibility. 
In addition, the Government of Moreno should be reminded that according to the report of the Ombudsman of Ecuador-DPE, a total of 1. 
192 people detained between (15 to 24) years of age on average. 
As well, he recorded a total of 1. 
340 people injured and 11 deceased people. 
During his national chain, President Lenín Moreno was right on something: the Ecuadorian people do not forget those who caused violence in October. 
Do not forget those who ordered to shoot humanity and face the tear and lost pumps, do not forget those who ordered to attack the areas of peace and refuge, the people do not forget that the Romo ministers, Jarrín and their ministers are politicians responsible of the death of the 11 social fighters. 
In addition, we must remember the Ecuadorian people that up to date, the Ecuadorian State through the General Prosecutor's Office does not have any open process on those responsible for murdered persons and hundreds of injuries. 
But rather, on the contrary what there are criminal proceedings against leaders and social fighters, which are criminalized and judicialized for having exercised the right to social protest and the right to resistance. 
The fight continues: by truth, justice and repair. 
Jairo Gualinga.  Youth leader Conaie.  . 
