With a minute of silence by the mourning that at the naughty the country by the death of 22 military began the march convened by the indigenous movement (CONAIE), unitary front of workers, popular front and among other social organizations. 
From 16:00 on Thursday, March 17, in the vicinity of the insurance box, the first deasking, retirees, university students, military retired, unemployed, doctors, social activists, were concentrated to defend the rights of nature and Human rights and political leaders. 
The mobilization of this month had as convening labor reform, the persecution and criminalization of social proponation. 
In addition, the morning of the same Thursday was approved the law of promotion of youth work, protection of the start and insurance of unemployment, reasons why with greater discontent citizenship is shown on the streets to pronounce their opinion. 
Posters prepared by the same protesters were presented who clearly reflected the various demands. 
The indigenous movement required respect for collective rights, the cessation of the persecution and criminalization of leaders and leaders, as well as the agraira debt existing in the country. 
Workers carried banners who referred to the reduction of the working day and the salary, retirees demanded the payment of 40% of the State to IESS for the payment of retirement pensions, doctors criticized what they claimed implies a penalty of their profession, The military in passive service requested more respect for the institution, they also showed posters against the induction cuisines. 
Without any inconvenience, this peaceful progress was carried out against the policies of the ruling, which toured the AV. 
August 10 and then head towards the historic center and finally culminate in the Santo Domingo Square. 
Jorge Herrera, president of the CONAIE, mentioned the success of mobilization and made a call to resistance and union for the fight against a prepotent government that does not listen to the true needs of the people. 
. 
