Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, November 23, 2016  With deep concern we reported that since today's sunset, November 23, around 7:00 pm (7pm), the armed forces attack the Shuar population of Nankints on the San Carlos Bridge, in an operation to militarize the headers of Panantza and San Carlos. 
These movements of the armed forces generate the conditions for the violation of human rights and that irreparable loss is reached if a confrontation is caused. 
The Shuar population of the Cordillera del Cóndor, on the morning of Monday, 21 of this month, proceeded to resume its presence in the Nankints community, after it was evicted by the public force in August of this year, to give way to The construction of the camp belonging to the Mining Project San Carlos-Panantza. 
The mining project is located on Shuar Ancestral Territory, but it was never consulted its members, violating their constitutional rights. 
Yesterday, November 22, the comuneros who returned to Nankints were attacked by air and land by more than 1000 military and police officers. 
Product from these actions, there were wounded comuneros and effective; Shuar commuters were arrested and there are members of the community of which their whereabouts are not known. 
Today, November 23, Adrián Chumpi of the Kutukus community and Christopher Sanchim of the Yukuteis community were passed while passing the New Bridge of San Carlos on the Zamora River. 
It should be emphasized that until last August the Nankints community was in dialogues with different governmental bodies to reach an agreement and the possibility of a prior, free and informed consultation in accordance with the law, talk that was interrupted by the violent eviction Of Shuar families in the hands of the same public force and the invasion of its territory by the company China Expocobres SA, EXSA. 
CONAIE has sent communications to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defense, the Joint Command of the FFAA and the Ombudsman demanding a halt to violence to precautionary life and an exit dialogue to the conflict. 
We reiterate, we demand the demilitarization of Shuar territory to avoid any situation of violence. 
We call for human rights organizations at the national and international level to collaborate in caution the rights, life and integrity of Shuar's comuner in this delicate situation. 
We summon the solidarity of citizens, to demand demilitarization and cessation of violent actions that go for the benefit of Chinese companies. 
We support our brothers from the Shuar Nankints community in the exercise of their right to self-determination, to their existence as a people in their territory, and to resistance to violating their rights. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  PDF Bulletin  . 
