The unitary national collective of workers, indigenous and social organizations pointed out that the withdrawal of the two national assembly law projects by the President of Ecuador, Rafael Correa, will not stop the struggles of the worker, indigenous, peasant, doctor, student , teacher, housewife, retired field and the city. 
Severino Sharupi, president (E) Conaie, said that the law of inheritance does not affect the great capitals and that for that reason "the fight ours is not only by the law of inheritance and surplus value." 
And, if you truly want to distribute the wealth that makes true agrarian reform "because it is a debt in this country and this government, it emphasized. 
He demanded that if he really wishes to distribute the richness, he deliver the property title to Conaie over his headquarters. 
In addition, he requested that the trial be withdrawn to the criminalized leaders. 
The collectible demands of the field and the city go beyond a simple law of inheritance and surplus value indicated the leaders and leaders of the organizations that make up the national collective. 
They stressed that they will continue to fight until: the Labor Law, the Agua de Agua, Decree 016; It is considered the proposals of the indigenous movement in the treatment of land law; constitutional amendments are archived; reforms that deteriorate social security and retirement rights are left without effect; Free access to college is achieved; The policy of criminalization to social protest is eliminated; the elimination of the confiscation of the ceasefunds and return to its legitimate owners; The territories of the peoples and nationalities of mining, oil and transnational companies are left free to the territories; The firm of the TLC is terminated
By the Conaie, Sharupi called the Ecuadorian Government "who does not end up meeting clandestine with our basic organizations as he has been doing in Coca, Puyo, Latacunga and this 27 plans to meet in Santo Domingo" and that the visit of the Pope will not stop the fighting actions that leads the collective. 
The closure of the Bilingual Community Schools is another of the abuses of this government, expressed the leader of the Conaie. 
He added that the achievement of bilingual education is also with the contribution of the church, as well as Monsignor Leonidas Proaño did. 
The educational model restricts access to universities to hundreds and thousands of indigenous and non-indigenous youth, warned. 
The representatives of the organizations that make up the national collective reiterated on several occasions that they will not make the game to the right of Lasso, Correa, Nebot. 
They stressed that you do not want to return to the past, but do not live in a prepotent present, tax. 
They also noted that mobilizations are peaceful fight actions and are not intended to destabilize any government and that "the electoral right will not pass". 
Finally, they invited all citizens to participate in the mobilization to be held on June 18 and 24 of this year in Quito and in the different central places of the different cities of the country. 
The concentration in Quito will be from 4:00 pm in the El Ejido park in front of the IESS insurance box. 
A next mobilization will be done on July 2. 
. 
