Agustín Wachapá, president of the Interprovincial Federation of Centro Shuar-FICSH, was directed yesterday, Wednesday, January 25, 2017, to his Shuar people and a general population from the maximum security jail located in Latacunga, Cotopaxi Province. 
It is located in prison on December 21, 2016 after the search carried out at the FICSH headquarters. 
The Shuar leader begins his message by issuing a "fraternal greeting from the Sierra region. 
Today in my quality as president of the Interprovincial Federation of Centro Shuar. 
Today deprived of freedom for this government, who has tried to look for the interests of his pocket. " 
It is noted the indignation in each of the words mentioned. 
It highlights that "the Shuar people have defended collective interests." 
He points out that in the country there is no freedom of expression and that for that reason it is in the Cotopaxi prison. 
And denounces that:  Today more than ever I want to emphasize, and report to different national and international instances, the violation of the drechants enshrined in the Constitution. 
While the people defend the natural resources of our soil, when the interests of shift governments have been looting the richness of the Ecuadorian people. 
The lung of the Amazon exists, and our Amazon should not be sold, it must be defended. 
In reiterated moments it indicates that the Amazon has a diversity in flora and fauna, and therefore it is the duty of the people to defend it. 
He affirms that he is criminalized and imprisoned for defending the wealth "of our soil". 
It is ratified that it will not decline its struggle, rather will continue to defend collective interests. 
"If so I have to die, here to give my life, I'll have to do." 
It is one of the expressions that antepped to remember that one more time, one of the President of the FICSH is in jail. 
It calls no claudicar resistance for defense of the territory. 
Motivate not fainting in this process. 
It is ratified as president and representative of the Shuar people. 
In the last part, remember the electoral moment by which the country is going through and calls for a president who respects human rights and nature. 
"We want a president who has to do with human rights, that it is more humanitarian, which expresses the integrity of the Ecuadorian people." 
"We are going to continue defending our resources. 
They are the only resources that we have left in our country. 
The water is defended. 
The resources are defended. 
It is not sold, "reaffirms. 
The Government of Ecuador issued a state of exception on December 14, 2016, then a conflict between Shuar and the Public Force for the presence of the Mining Camp the hope that is in the Nankints community. 
On January 12, 2017 by presidential decree the state of exception was extended for 30 more days. 
On January 6, 2017, the resource of habeas corpus was denied for Agustín Wachapá for the alleged crime of instigation at discord by a publication made in the Facebook social network. 
On January 18, he denied the appeal for Wachapá. 
As his lawyer said, the descended was "exclusively by the emergency decree, for them (judges) is the norm, it is the law, it is the Constitution, they are the international treaties." 
He added that "do not respect that freedom of thought is a universal right," no human rights violations he has committed at the time of his apprehension was not considered. 
Full audio in:  . 
