By: Ana Acosta  The apartheid was legal  The Holocaust was legal  Slavery was legal  Colonialism was legal  Legality is a matter of power, not justice. 
For a moment let's forget that we are in the citizen revolution. 
For a moment we think about the future and what can happen when the power of shift runs out of power. 
Let's think that the actions that are now legalized by decrees made to the extent, tomorrow will be observed when justice is not on your side. 
What I am going to tell you seems just an administrative procedure, it seems a simple action by a public official to legalize an indigenous leadership, but it is not like that. 
The secretary of peoples social movements and citizen participation, and specifically the Undersecretariat of peoples and interculturality, has just made two arbitrary, illegitimate, totally condemnable, but "legal actions thanks to a decree: 691. 
This Decree, issued on June 4, 2015 by President Rafael Correa, with barely an article, a single transient provision and a final provision, retreated almost two decades the rights achieved by the struggle of indigenous peoples and nationalities in Ecuador, especially In terms of customary law, to their self-determination, social organization and exercise of authority in their territories. 
This Decree orders that the codenpe transfer all the documentation of the indigenous organizations to the National Secretary of Management of Policy and gives it the power to legalize and register the Statutes, Directives and Councils of Governments of Indigenous Peoples, Afro-Ecuatorian and Village Montubus . 
This is only possible by a legal vacuum caused by the Organic Law of the National Councils for Equality that in its first derogatory provision, eliminates the organic law of the public institutions of the indigenous peoples of Ecuador. 
This law, which was approved in 2007, gave the attribution to the codenpe of legalizing indigenous organizations, being repealed, a legal vacuum was generated. 
The only article says:  "The National Secretariat of Politics Management shall have an attribution to legalize and register bylaws, directives and government councils of indigenous nationalities and peoples, Afro-Ecuadorian people and Montubius, approved according to their own and customary law, as well as their forms of organization They work within the respective community, nationality or people. 
The registration of social organizations will be done under respect for the principles of free association and self-determination "  So far the legality, we go to the actions. 
The first arbitrariness against: Confédae  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Confédae, is the main organization of the Amazon of Ecuador. 
It brings together 22 federations and organizations that correspond to the 11 Amazonian nationalities. 
On September 14 and 15, several characters, known for having participated in the past in divisionist actions of the indigenous organization during the Government of Lucio Gutiérrez, such as Antonio Vargas, Valerio Grefa, Felipe Tenkush, summoned an extraordinary assembly for the election of a New president of Conféniae. 
According to the status of Conféniae, Congress is the highest authority and there must be 625 parliamentarians and is the only instance that authorities can choose. 
To the alleged "self-tasting" assembly attended approximately 200 people, several of them were not official delegates of their communities. 
Several young people attended deceived, they told them it was for a workshop, and when they arrived it was for the election of new authorities (young testimony, nationality Kichwa Sucumbíos) Many people were deceived to receive "support" of productive projects (assistant woman testimony) or because They thought it would be discussed a land issue of their communities (testimony people present). 
Agustín Wachapá, president of the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar Centers, FICSH, the largest Shuar organization of the Amazon, attended the Assembly and unaware Felipe Tenkush, who said he was at the Assembly as an official Shuar delegate. 
In the Assembly, members of the National Secretary of Policy Management, Ecuador Strategic and Ecoee were present, several of the participants were brought in buses from public instances, with citizen link logos. 
In spite of all this and skipping the Statute itself, they made the choice of "new" Governing Council by choosing as supposed president of the Conféniae to Felipe Tenkush and as supposed President of the Amazonian Parliament to Valerio Grefa. 
Who is Felipe Tenkush?  Felipe Tenkush, attended the Assembly as a delegate from the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar Centers, FICSH, but the president of him unawamed his participation, so without organizational endorsement can not be even if he wants a candidate for choice. 
Felipe Tsenkush, was deputy by Pachakutik, during the government of Lucio Gutiérrez. 
For having voted next to the Christian Social Party for the modification of a seat law, in 2004, he was expelled from Pachakutik. 
Then Tsenkush, aliking to Lucio Gutiérrez, was one of the deputies who voted in favor of the dismissal of the judges of the Supreme Court of Justice, to enter the Pichi Court, which allowed Abdalá Bucaram's return. 
For this action, today the Ecuadorian State must pay 15 million to the destitute judges, after a judgment of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights. 
Tsenkush, today aged and with a new shirt, reappears ally to the country's alliance government, meets with public officials, accompanies Jorge Glas to his visit for the Amazon, attends the links citizens and poses for the photo with Rafael Correa. 
While this happens the National Assembly, with Gabriela Rivadeneira at the head, analyzes the beginning of a repeat trial for those deputies who dismissed the Supreme Court of Justice. 
If this action continues, several deputies, including Felipe Tenkush, will be prosecuted so that they pay this sanction. 
All this seems to be unknown by Minister Serrano who gave all his support the alleged new president of the Conféniae. 
At a meeting in the Ministry of the Interior, Tenkush requested greater police and military presence in indigenous territories due, according to him, to the presence of drug trafficking, also said he wants young people to become part of the police [1]  Also the officials of the Secretary of Management of the Policy, seem to ignore who Tenskush and have given him all the support of him. 
Thus on September 23 at a job of response to the application entered on September 21 by Felipe Tsenkush "Registration and Legalization of Directive of the New Governing Council of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Amazon" The National Secretary of Management of The policy gave the legal appointment to the alleged new advice of conference. 
The second arbitrariness against: the Achuar Nationality  Imagine several military helicopters arriving at an indigenous community in the middle of the Amazon, within these helicopters are military and several public officials of the National Secretary of Policy Management. 
This time the reason was not a military operation, such as those that usually do in Amazon territory, but it was "to support" the arrival of communities at a supposed assembly of Achuar Nationality. 
Mariano Tsetsekip, of the Shiwiar Nationality, Provincial Director of the National Secretary of Policy Management, SNGP, coordinated the flights from the Super Puma Army helicopter, who entered and took people from the Achuar communities to the alleged Assembly. 
This Assembly promoted by Rubén Tsamareint, dismissed president of the NAE, did not achieve the third part of the participation of the communities. 
Despite this, contrary to the NAE Statutes, they chose a new Government Council. 
Rubén Tsamareint, a militant of the country alliance in Morona Santiago, was dismissed as president of the NAE in an extraordinary assembly in Pumpunsa attended by delegates from the 17 associations that make up the NAE. 
Even he was present to give his work report to the bases, who demanded accounts about his participation in the dialogues with the government and his permissiveness to the income of the secretary of hydrocarbons that promotes oil exploitation in Achuar territory (blocks 74.75 ). 
The majority of official delegates rejected Rubén Tsamareint's actions and after a day of debate, they dismissed it. 
Thus, Bolívar Wasump, who was Vice President, was elected as a new president and Marlon Vargas as Vice President. 
The Governing Council of the NAE elected in this legitimate and majority assembly, requested the National Secretariat for the approval of the new Council. 
Ignoring the majority decision of the Achuar communities, ignoring the organizational process of the indigenous communities and without observing the Statute itself, the National Secretary of Management of the Policy granted the legal appointment to Ruben Tsamareint chosen in the alleged assembly of military helicopters . 
Legitimacy vs legality  Faced with so many arbitrariness, organizations have decided to reject the actions of the National Secretary of Policy Management and based on collective rights enshrined in the Constitution and international organizations, they requested the CONAIE as their organization and national authority with the legitimate appointment. 
Thus, the Conaie granted the appointment to the Governing Council of the NAE chaired by Bolivar Wasum, who was elected legitimately at the Assembly carried out in Pumpunsa (September 25) and ratified Franco Viteri as president of the Conféniae. 
Franco Viteri, legitimate president of Confénia, summoned an ordinary assembly to assess the situation of the Organization and make decisions. 
Without support of the State, without buses paid by a ministry, without military helicopters, this assembly attended more than 400 delegates from the Indigenous Communities throughout the Amazon. 
After a long debate, they ratified as president to Franco Viteri and the entire Council of Conféniae to finish their period until 2016. 
In this assembly, the majority bases of the Confénia rejected the interference of the national government in the organizations, in addition that they did not know Felipe Tsenkush as supposed president since "lacks legitimacy and recognition of the bases, breaking up the statutory procedures of the Conféniae and the Regulations of the Amazonian Parliament. 
In addition, Felipe Tsenkush does not have the support of his Interprovincial Federation of Shuar FICSH Centers, which requires his sanction "(Resolutions Ordinary Assembly Confédae 14 November 2015). 
With this, indigenous organizations are demanding compliance with a true plurinational and intercultural state, where the State must respect their self-determination. 
The officials of the Secretary of Management of the Politics seem to ignore the Constitution itself, which guarantees the indigenous nationalities the exercise of customary law, its self-determination, social organization and exercise of authority in its territories. 
Those actions that today the average managing of the policy management secretary execute violating the collective rights of indigenous peoples, will later be observed, not only for being unconstitutional but by marking a decade of decades in the construction of a plurinational state, That more and more seems to be saved in the drawer of a shift bureaucrat. 
But the state has a blind side and is that it simply does not know the ways to build legitimacy in community organization. 
All these actions, instead of weakening the indigenous organization, which has achieved is that Amazon's associations and federations that were distant from the national organization, value the need for articulation with their mother organization, which has granted a Strong legitimacy to Conaie and its validity as the main national organization. 
Where the Government has not managed to enter, where the indigenous peoples exercise their right to self-determination, where the assembly of rented platforms or buses does not arrive. 
There, in the community assembly it is where organizations strengthen their historical struggle. 
Well said Domingo Ankuash, Historical SHUAR leader: "I tell those of the Government: Denies the appointment, give them the role signed by their state, it is not good for them if they do not have people, it is not good for them to have the role if there is no People who do the organization, use a lonel-speaking leader ". 
[1] See Felipe Tsenkush video, Ministry of the Interior, HTTPS: // www. 
youtube. 
com/watch?v=4sAgoNssXc0

. 
