Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, July 4, 2018  At the meeting of indigenous nationalities and peoples, due to the restitution of their collective rights within the framework of dialogue with the National Government, Lenín Moreno President of the Republic will sign the decree of creation of the Secretary of the Bilingual Intercultural Education System Seib, with Financial, administrative and pedagogical autonomy and will have a board of education of the nationalities and peoples that will be the rector of public policy on the subject. 
This achievement is then given one year of dialogue and an intense territorial work. 
The appointment will be this Friday, July 6, 2018 from 9:00 pm at the Major Coliseum, Ciudad de Latacunga, Province of Cotopaxi to which delegations, authorities and leaders of bilingual education of indigenous nationalities and peoples will attend. 
After the disappearance of bilingual intercultural education with the reform of the Education Law and the rearrangement of the Educational Offer that promoted the Correism, the collective, cultural and linguistic rights of children and girls of peoples and nationalities were affected, for this crime of cultural genocide, ECUARUNARI filed a criminal complaint with the International Criminal Court of The Hague; The Conaie demanded the restitution of SEIB within the framework of dialogue posed by the Government of Moreno. 
Bilingual Intercultural Education had as a mission to share, transmit and maintain the vitality of language, knowledge and traditions that structure the cultures of peoples and nationalities, however, the national education system subordinated the bilingual system and progressively weakened its character Intercultural and bilingual, deteriorating and discrediting the quality of the education to which the peoples and nationalities agreed. 
To restore the own education system of indigenous peoples, in addition, guaranteeing the exercise of constitutional rights, allows to recover the original languages, knowledge and knowledge of the Ecuadorian Society Service as a whole, without devastating culture, or losing their identity or its Social and community fabric. 
The CONAIE presented on July 4, 2017, the urgent mandate for the construction of the plurinational State and the Intercultural Society with the purpose of provoking a debate on urgent public policies of this work was established dialogue between Conaie and the National Government where There were problematic about territory, biodiversity, politics, education, reactivation of the field economy, recovery of democracy and human rights and combat to corruption and impunity, demands that must be resolved in a given period. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of Conaie.   Bulletin in PDF.  . 
