Leonidas Iza Salazar, president of the indigenous and peasant movement of Cotopaxi, surrendered, on Tuesday 29 demo, version by the alleged crime of kidnapping and extortion concerning the case of massive scam with cryptomoneda Bitcoin, in which the indigenous movement opened a research process Through the Jusrisdiction, indigenous justice since the end of 2017. 
In January 2018, the MICC initiated a process of compiling complaints by massive scam that the Pyramidal Bitcoin network operated in the province of Cotopaxi, a process that was initially argued in indigenous communities and in whose course they were added allegations of the urban area. 
Subsequently, it took a national connotation by the numerous cases of scam. 
Leonidas Iza ensures that they are around 112. 
000 cases denounced in the Ecuadorian territory. 
The Panzaleo President went before Pichincha's Prosecutor's Office accompanied by several leaders to comply with the diligence of version of the facts. 
After that, Iza mentioned that "before the ineffectiveness of ordinary justice we had to assume even the allegations of scam that emerged from the urban area." 
Jaime Vargas, president of CONAIE, demanded the cessation of the political persecution of the leaders of the indigenous movement at the national level. 
For this reason, he announced that "not taking this case in a manner due to the Pichincha Prosecutor's Office, we will elevate this claim to other instances." 
The indigenous and peasant movement of Cotopaxi, with support of the National Organization - CONAIE, in previous months raised an agreement for cooperation and coordination between ordinary justice and indigenous justice, such as the Constitution, for treatment of the case of scam in Bitcoin mode. 
The argument to deny this agreement was that indigenous justice has the absence of legitimacy and competition. 
The position assumed by the Prosecutor was qualified for discrimination and racism by the leaders, because they deny any cooperation action. 
In the research process done by the authorities of the Panzaleus people were responsible for those who are involved in the massive scam of cryptomoned. 
Leonidas iza Salazar, along with 40 more people, among leaders and community are facing ordinary justice against several legal proceedings by the simple fact of applying indigenous justice in the community territories. 
Iza Salazar to date, May 30, 2018, it faces five more accusations for the following alleged crimes:  Prosecution  No. file  CRIME  DENOUNCED  Complainant  Organized crime prosecution,  Transnational E.  International 2 - Quito  170101817120006.  Kidnapping  Leonidas Iza Salazar, Ernesto Jami, Esther Vargas  Prosecutor's Office 
