Calling from the original peoples, Afro-descendants and popular organizations in Latin America. 
The crisis that has globally caused the VOCID-19 presents a crossroads to the peoples of Abya Yala - Latin America. 
Popular organizations are the first line of resistance against the worst expressions of the decomposition system:   We are going through a comprehensive crisis that threatens life in all its forms. 
The Covid-19 was transformed into a pandemic in a moment of aggravation of the capitalist crisis and repeated attempts since the economic power that the working class loads behind their backs with the recomposition of the decreasing entrepreneurial rate; That it converges with the weakening of health systems, the deterioration of living conditions and the dispossession of the public as a result of the neoliberal twist. 
The suffocation to which the external debt, international organizations and the permanent agobium of imperialism against our sovereignty are forming a scenario that anticipates the serious consequences. 
In an America where we refused to accept the structural adjustments and disembarkation of new imperialist policies, and where our peoples have incarnated important popular uprisings in recent months, the pandemic has become an excuse to legitimize the presence of the armed forces in Our territories and implement adjustment measures and the deterioration of the conditions of existence of the working class. 
Likewise, this crisis revealed again the brutality of patriarchal violence on sexual women and disidencies, as well as the historical exclusion of indigenous and Afro-descendant peoples exposed to face pandemic in extreme vulnerability. 
As is the best tradition of our people, we are the organizations of the people, workers, peasants, from original peoples, feminist, Afro-descendants, piqueterras, of inhabitants, the neighborhoods, which we are putting the body, the head and the heart In developing immediate answers, but also to project an exit to this crisis that is not a return to the wild capitalist normality, but a path to a different society. 
This will be possible if we take the best of us as peoples, community ties and popular, territorial and regional unity, that we feed during this battle, will be part of the tissue that builds the transformation horizons in Abya Yala. 
In the face of the lack of housing we occupy territories and build houses; Given the lack of work we organize cooperatives, we recover factories and face closures, layoffs and suspensions; Before the patron attack we fight for better working conditions through strikes; In the absence of education, we generate schools; Given oppression towards women and disidencies we build popular feminisms; Before exploitation we build a basic union organization and fight against precarization and worthy salaries until the last consequences; Against hunger we build dining rooms and merenders; Faced with the climate crisis we develop agroecology; Facing the monoculture and the monopoly of food, we build agri-food peasant territories to guarantee sovereignty and food autonomy; Given the militarization, paramilitarism and drug trafficking are replacing crops and struggle against state violence. 
Our alternative is of life against those who propose death. 
Faced with closed border and fragmentation policy, and against xenophobia and neofascism that propose from above, we resume the horizon of continental solidarity and the unity of peoples. 
Faced with the policies of the capitalists, to use the crisis as a coating of the adjustment, let us go and rethink our historical struggles for the defense of the territories, life and socialization of riches, we build popular and community power. 
Therefore, we demand from governments and call the peoples:   Prioritize life on debt. 
Not to the payment of the external debt, exhaustive research and condonation of it. 
It is criminal to escale funds to health and rights, to pay for obligations with the IMF and other creditors. 
Health and social protection systems to face the pandemic are the priority. 
We need to recover our strategic wealth and the management of banks and foreign trade, a permanent source of the economic bleeding of Latin American countries. 
Only one policy of economic sovereignty, from the progress of popular power, can alleviate the economic crisis and the global that we are starting to live. 
Combat inequalities. 
Extraordinary tax to the rich, to the gain of banks and large companies, to those who escaped capital. 
That governments assume the role of eliminating inequalities promoted by the market, which the necessary investments in emergency policies are financed facing the concentration of wealth, not with salary sales to workers. 
Reorient the production lines of large companies for the generation of inputs destined to combat the coronavirus, as well as the diseases that we endure without attention from the state as malnutrition, dengue, chagas and tuberculosis. 
Urgent strengthening of public health systems. 
Urgent and Priority Investment in the Public Health System, Private Health Statization and Strengthening Measures of Pandemic Containment by States. 
The pandemic reaffirms the need for all and all receive universal health assistance, strengthening the public promotion of these services. 
That States take control of the production and administration of all the necessary inputs to face the crisis with participation and control of workers. 
Elimination of the patent system on medicines to fully develop research and scientific application to solve human problems, and recognition of originating and ancestral medicine. 
For work with all rights. 
Universal income guaranteed for all and all, prohibition of dismissals and suspensions. 
It is essential to recognize the rights of the workers to live a dignified quarantine. 
That this emergency is not the excuse to continue advancing in the precario of work. 
Not at the closing of companies, state support for its occupation and recovery by the workers. 
Housing and dignified habitat as a social law. 
Quarantine can only be carried out under a roof, with guaranteed basic services and in a healthy neighborhood. 
It is necessary to suspend evictions, rental payments and services; Habitat policies should be directed towards comprehensive urban reform that guarantees access to housing in decent neighborhoods for all working families. 
Universal access to water, light and gas and urbanization of popular neighborhoods: there is no fight against pandemic without all people to have drinking water, gas and access to electricity at home, neighborhood or community. 
Neither houses without people, nor people without houses. 
Requisition of empty properties for the population in street situation and popular shelters. 
Face hunger and guarantee universal feeding. 
Prioritize the financing and role of cooperative, community and agroecological family agriculture in the supply of food for the people, eaters, merewashers and community kitchens: it is necessary to advance in the promotion of access to food, as a way to promote the economy and not cause a supply crisis. 
Guarantee a basic basket with regulated prices and tax exempt. 
Require sanctions to speculation with prices The hoarding of supermarkets and intermediaries. 
Condation of the debts of the peasants and peasants, the redistribution of the productive land and implementation of protection systems and agroecological colonies with state financing. 
Against the commodification of nature. 
We need to recover sovereignty over our common assets such as water, gas, oil, land, strategic wealth that is usurped by economic octopus with the complicity of governments and local bourgeoisie. 
Full respect for the territories of the peoples and stake up of the economic and extractive model. 
The exploitation of natural resources must respect Mother Earth as thus to the peoples that inhabit it. 
Strengthening of sanitary fence and humanitarian assistance with guarantee of sovereignty of the territories to originating peoples, indigenous nationalities and Afro. 
Especially to all those whose habitat is in vital ecosystems such as the Amazon, for whom epidemiological threat can mean ethnocide. 
Strengthening of its own government and its systems for the territorial and cultural survival of the lives of indigenous and Afro peoples. 
Prohibition of evictions and actions that violate the sovereignty of indigenous peoples. 
Real policies to face macho violence. 
With social isolation measures, there is the possibility of increasing domestic violence and other forms of violence against women. 
That for women, cis and trans, the expansion of technological platforms to ensure their use when violence against women is a fact is not enough to prevent it and eradicate it. 
Budget to prevent femicides and transfendes. 
Shelters for people in a situation of violence, delivery of special economic subsidy to survivors. 
Employment and education plans oriented towards women and disidencies. 
More prevention, not to repression. 
Many governments have used the context of the Coronavirus to intensify repressive logic and surveillance, and to increase the imprisonment of the poorest, community leaders, human rights defenders. 
It is time to reduce the prison population as a public health problem. 
It is also necessary to revalue the own authorities and the Community, indigenous and popular guards who take care of the ancestral territories and are being a cash community organization to take care of life in the field and in the city. 
No to political, economic and imperialist military intervention. 
We categorically reject the use of the crisis as an excuse for military intrusion in Venezuela by the Yankee imperialism and its partners, the permanent murder of indigenous and popular leaders in Colombia, the fierce repression of the coup regime in Bolivia and Honduras, from Antipopular Government of Piñera in Chile, as well as the expansion of extractive projects in indigenous territories and peasants. 
We demand that blockots be lifted towards Cuba and Venezuela. 
Internationalist humanitarian aid. 
We demand from governments to request humanitarian aid to Cuba and other countries that have developed technical experience to face the pandemic and that can help contain the Covid-19 outbreak in the cities where the pandemic has expanded with more crudeness, how Guayaquil and Saint Paul. 
Against the richness of few, for the struggle of the peoples   For life, not the IMF!   How the Latin American peoples fight:  Saying-doing, saying-doing, saying-doing, fuck!   Internationalist solidarity, now!   Document on PDF.       Adhesions:   Fruit-urban resistance. 
Org.  Communication @ Conaie. 
Org.   Political and social organizations:  Conaie Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Ecuador  Congress of the Peoples - Colombia  MTST Movement of workers without ceiling-Brazil  Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon-Ecuador  FPDS Front Popular Darío Santillán-Argentina  Onic Indigenous National Organization of Colombia-Colombia  FRI  Ukamau-Chile.  RBZ Revolutionary Current Bolívar and Zamora-Venezuela  SNTE-SENT NATIONAL SIXNION OF EDUCATION WORKERS-MEXICO  Autery Syndicate Electricista-Uruguay  SME Mexican Syndicate of Electricians-Mexico  NCT new workers-mexico central  Coordination and National Convergence Maya Waqib'kej- Guatemala  CNA Agricultural National Coordinator-Colombia  Apub-articulação two indigenous povos do Brasil-Brazil  Movement of peoples / by a feminist socialism from below. 
(Front Popular Darío Santillán National Current-Movement for Latin American Unity and Social Change -ible Latin American Socialist-Movement April 8) -Argentina  Cloc (Anamuri, Ranquil, Conapproch, National Apiculture, Anmi) -chile  FENASIBANCOL National Federation of Colombian Banking Trade Unions-Colombia  MPA Move of Small Farmers -Brasil  CRIC Indigenous Regional Council of Cauca-Colombia  UTT Union of Land-Argentina workers  PCN process of black communities-Colombia  Conamuri Organization of peasant and indigenous women - Paraguay  Trabalhadora National União (s) Camelôs, Feairing and Ambulants do Brasil-Brazil  MicC indigenous movement and peasant of Cotopaxi - Ecuador  Papda Plate-Fashion Haïtienne from Plaidyer Pour A Développement Alternatif-Haïti  Interereclesial Commission of Justice and Peace-Colombia  EU feminism Antipatriarchal - Bolivia  Insurgent movement - Bolivia. 
MINCI Indigenous Peasant National Movement "We are land" - Argentina
CENPAZ National Coordination of Peace-Colombia
MBL Movement of Barrios in Fight-Ecuador
Popular Brigades-Brazil
Humanitarian Zone of San Pedro del Ingara Chocó Peace Territory-Colombia
Unorcac - Union of peasant organizations of Cotacachi - Ecuador
Mtd Aníbal Verón-Argentina
Autonomous FOB-Argentina
FOB The Libertarian-Argentina
MTR for direct-Argentina democracy
Far front Red burns / Copa-Argentina
Popular front - Ecuador
Coordinator Simón Bolívar-Venezuela
Radio al are 23-Venezuela
Peasant fighting platform- Venezuela
Collective Verdes-Venezuela Roads
FNL National Front of Lutas -Brasil
Movement of women for the life of Cajibio and Popayán-Colombia
Committee for the abolition of illegitimate debt CADTM ABYA YALA Our America (Colombia, Haiti, Uruguay, Argentina, Venezuela, Brazil and Puerto Rico)
Network Emancipa of Popular Education-Brazil
Feminists of Abya Yala
MPLT Movement People fight and work-Argentina
Scarves in Rebeldery-Argentina
Diversity Network-Bolivia
Permanente Popular School-Chile
Together! - Youth in Fight-Brazil
FECOOL National Movement Peasant - Ecuador
Association of Transport Workers and Workers (AsotraSet) - Ecuador
Sindical current Carlos Chile-Argentina
Collective whipala-bolivia
Platform by the Citizen Audit of Colombia Debt
OLP resist and fight-Argentina
Collective Alexis Vive-Venezuela
Collective Editorial March.
ANUEE (National Assembly of Electric Power Users)
Confederation of Retirees, Pensioners and Older Adults - Mexico
Migrant Secretary and Refugees UTEP-Argentina
Assembly Pachamama-Uruguay
Mapuche Los Awnos-Argentina
Federation of University Students of Ecuador-Ecuador
Movement Women for Life-Venezuela
Common Union-Venezuela
Urgent Voices-Venezuela
Fenix-Argentina Cultural Pedagogical Space
Youth Movement for the Homeland (JPP-PPT) -venezuela
Friends Da Terra-Brazil
CDI-Ecuador Economic and Social Rights Center
Ecosocialist feminist network of Ecuador-Ecuador
Coordinator of Peoples and Organizations of the East of the State of Mexico in Defense of Earth, Water and its Culture (CPOOEM) -México
Network of digital media of community and alternative communication of Ecuador Informa Village-Ecuador
Fury Collective Trava of Transminists Abolitionist-Argentina
Unitary Confederation of Retail Traders and Autonomous Workers of Ecuador Cucomitae-Ecuador
Form da Amazônia Oriental Faor-Brazil
Ica Christian Church Agape-Honduras
Latin American Solidarity Committee of Mendoza-Argentina
Neighborhood Assembly (neighbors in fight) -Argentina
Outside the rigolleau substation (against pollution of CEM fields) -Argentina
Network of irradiated Barrios de la R. 
A. 
-Argentina  Indigenous Audiovisual Foundation Wayaakua-Venezuela  International Indigenous Film Sign of Venezuela Miciv-Venezuela  Indian Village Foundation of Ecuador-Ecuador  Friends Da Terrica Latina and Caribbean-Atalc  Consélho Indigenist Milionário-Cimi-Brazil  Grupo Letter of Belém-Brazil  South Jubilee / Americas  Jubileu Sul Brasil.  Colombian Association of Consumer Education-Colombia  Sur BS Conurban Confining Collective Tatua. 
AS- Argentina  Committee Oscar Romero de Cádiz-Spain  Cultural, Political and Social Space La Casita in Marabunta-Argentina  Oscar Committee Romero-SicSal-Chile. 
Helmut Frenz Foundation for Human Rights Education-Chile. 
Observatory for the closure of the School of the Americas-Chile. 
Collective of critical geography of Ecuador-Ecuador  Workshop of "J" Student Ormation Roots - Tjer-Colombia  Indigenous Popular Autonomous Coordinator (Cinpa) Oaxaca -Exico  Collective of women in resistance "SINCHI WARMI" - Ecuador  SOA WATCH - Observatory of the School of the Americas  Tatu proposal  Alternative Student Vortex-Ecuador  Popular Unit of Ecuador  Intercontinental network of promotion of the Solidarity Social Economy for Latin America (Ripess LAC)  Institute for Development of the Associative Economy (ideac) -Republic Dominican  The National Network of Solidarity Economics Organizations (Redesol) -republica Dominican. 
Rebellion or extinction movement-Argentina  Northern Environmental and Social Mining Observatory of Ecuador Omasne-Ecuador  Base strength-Chile  MPL (Movement Popular Liberation) -Argentina  CCRS (Classist René Salamanca) -Argentina  Pucará, Catamando Peoples in Resistance and Self-Determination-Argentina  Orco Huasi Institute. 
Intercultural Research, Salta-Argentina
Red Cepela-Colombia
The Ría Current Critical Feminist-Argentina
Let's talk about Human Rights-Costa Rica
La Cadjos - Feminist Communication-Costa Rica
Assembly of the indigenous peoples of the Isthmus in defense of the Earth and the
Territory (Apiidtt) -Mexico
Federação two bodies for social and educational assistance (phase) - Brazil
National Popular Power Organization-Mexico
Associação Agroecology Tijupá-Brazil
Afro Movement Women and Disidencies-Argentina
Cafe Feminist de Cadiz-Spain
Christian Community of Holy Base Tomás by Aquino Madrid-Spain
WRM - World Movement by tropical forests
Alliance of Indigenous Women of Central America and Mexico
Collective Step Double-Mexico
Right network, class struggle and reconfiguration of capital-Mexico
Collective Juridical Activism-Mexico
Citizen Polo-Panama
Unitary League Socialist Chavista (struggles) - Venezuela
Agroecological Association Esther Cayapu, Asoesca, Sonora, Trujillo (Valle del Cauca). 
Association Regional Council NASA KWESX KXSAW, (Putumayo) made up of:  Alto Sinai Cabildo, Villa Garzón. 
High Suspistacha, Piedmont Cabildo. 
Cabildo Cerro de Guadua, Puerto Guzmán. 
Cabildo Çxhab Wala, Villagarzon. 
Cabildo Juan Tama, Puerto Guzman. 
Cabildo Kiwe Nxusxa, delights. 
Cabildo Kiwe U'kwe, Puerto Caicedo. 
Cabildo Kiwe U'se, New Palestine, Guamuéz Valley. 
Cabildo Kiwe ZXIÇXKWE, LIND Earth, Guamuéz Valley. 
Cabildo Kjwen Tama Luuçxwe'sx, sons of Juan Tama, Mocoa. 
Cabildo Ksxa'w NASA, High Danube, Puerto Assisi. 
Cabildo Kwe'sx. 
Puerto Assisi. 
Cabildo Kwe'sx Nasa Çxayu'çe, Upper Coqueto, Puerto Caicedo. 
Cabildo Kwe'sx Tata Wala, Puerto Caicedo. 
Cabildo Nothing Kiwe Puerto Leguizamo. 
Cabildo nothing tkuymatewe'sx, orito. 
Cabildo NASA FXI'W Liberty, Puerto Assisi. 
Cabildo PKID Kiwe, the Guayabales. 
Cabildo Sat't Tama, Puerto Assisi. 
Cabildo Thä 'Tadx Kiwe, Round Loma, Villa Garzón. 
Cabildo Yu 'Çxihme, El Lebanon, Puerto Caicedo. 
Cabildo Yu'kh Zxiçxkwe, Beautiful jungle, Puerto Caicedo. 
Cabildo Yu'Luuçx, Las Minas, Puerto Assisi. 
Jerusalem, Villa Garzón. 
Mühm Kiwe, the Guaduals, Puerto Guzmán. 
Reload Jerusalem San Luis Alto Picudito. 
Reguardo Jxkase Kiwe, rest, Puerto Guzmán. 
Shelter Florida, mocoa. 
NASA ÇXHAB, Puerto Asís. 
Reguardo Kiwnas Çxhab, Alto Lorenzo, Puerto Assisi. 
NASA UH Gavilanes, Success Gardens, Ipiales  Reguardo Sek Kaanxi Thä 'Kiwe Oriental Alps, La Floresta, High Cozy. 
Reguardo Txitx U'Kwe Kiwe, Porvenir La Barrialosa, Puerto Guzmán. 
Resguardo Yu'ukwe Kiwe, Aguaditas, Puerto Guzmán. 
San Luis Alto Picudito, Villa Garzón. 
Santa Rosa de Juanambu, Villa Garzón. 
Association of relatives of victims of Trujillo (Asfavit), (Valle del Cauca). 
Association of agricultural families with resorted properties in Colombia, Afarec, La Sonora, Trujillo, (Valle del Cauca). 
Association of displaced women of Ríosucio, Clamor, (Chocó). 
Association of Victims of Inzá, "Peace Plants", (Cauca). 
Association of victims New Esperanza, Algeria, (Cauca). 
Asokoinonia de Río Chiquito, Trujillo (Valle del Cauca). 
Civil community of life and peace - civipaz, the castle, (goal). 
Communities of self-determination, life, dignity, cavida, collective territory of cacaric, (Chocó). 
Confederation of peasant women, Comucan, (Nariño). 
Community Council of the Naya, (Valle del Cauca). 
Community head of headboards, under San Juan, (Valle del Cauca). 
Main advice of Afro-descendant communities of the collective territory of Jiguamiandó (Chocó). 
Humanitarian space Bridge Nayero, Buenaventura, (Valle del Cauca). 
Families affected by Mineria, Galindez, Patía, (Cauca). 
Organizations of populations displaced ethnic peasants of Montes de María. 
Network Defense of water Life and territory, (Cauca). 
Help of Chimiadó, he died, (Antioquia)  Reguardo Emberá Environmental Humanitarian So Bia Drua, Jiguamiandó, (Chocó). 
Humanitarian resguardo Santa Rosa de Guayacán, Calima, (Valle del Cauca). 
Humanitarian shelter and biodiverse Union Clear Water (Valle del Cauca). 
Naexal LAJT resort of the Jiw, Mapiripan, (Goal). 
Caño Sikuani Sheepguard, Mapiripán, (Meta). 
Shelves Wonanan from Juin Phu Buur, Cacarica, (Chocó). 
Reguardo Wonaan from the River Pichimá Quebrada, Litoral San Juan, (Chocó). 
Interétnic and Environmental Territory San Pedro de Inganá, San José del Palmar, (Chocó). 
Victims of the Massacre de la Chinita, departed, (Antioquia). 
Zone of Biodiversity Andalusia, collective territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Zone of Biodiversity Caracolí, collective territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
AREA OF BIODIVER ADOCIO, CURRAADÓ collective territory, (Chocó). 
Collective biodiversity area El Hobo, collective territory of Jiguamiandó, (Choco). 
Biodiversity Zone The bread tree, collective territory The long tumoradó, collided. 
Biodiversity Zone Paraiso, collective territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Biodiversity Zone Paraiso, Family Cabezas, Collective Territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Biodiversity Zone The Return, Collective Territory of Pedoguita and Mancilla, (Chocó). 
Biodiversity Zone Isaac Tuberquia, collective territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Biodiversity Zone The oaks, collective territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Zone of Biodiversity Hope, Family Polo, Collective Territory of Pedoguita and Mancilla, (Chocó). 
Zone of biodiversity Yulina, collective territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Biodiversity Zone Mary Hernández, collective territory of Pedoguita and Mancilla, (Chocó). 
Biodiversity area My land, collective territory of Pedoguita and Mancilla, (Chocó). 
Area of biodiversity There is no as God, collective territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Amazon pearl pearl reserve area, (Putumayo). 
Humanitarian Zone Andalusia, collective territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Humanitarian Zone Argénito Díaz, Collective Territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Humanitarian Zone Camelias is treasure, collective territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Humanitarian Zone Coño Manso, Collective Territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Humanitarian Zone Caracoli, collective territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Humanitarian Zone Centro Jigua, collective territory of Jiguamiandó, (Chocó). 
Humanitarian Zone Costa Azul, collective territory of Curbaradó, (Chocó). 
Humanitarian zone New hope, collective territory of Jiguamiandó, (Chocó). 
Humanitarian Zone New hope in God, collective territory of Cacarica, (Chocó). 
Humanitarian area New life, collective territory of Cacarica, (Chocó). 
Humanitarian Zone, Life and Labor La Balsita, Paradise, Municipality of Dabeiba, (Antioquia). 
Autoconvocated neighbors against La Ceamse-Argentina  Care de González Catán-Argentina  Sport Cultural and Environmental Center González González González Catán de Bs. 
AS-ARGENTINA.  Center for Economic and Social Rights - CDES Ecuador  South Jubilee / Americas  House of the towns- Mexico  Collective Zenzontle.  Indigenous community Lenca "Land of the Father"  Werken TV Television Mapuche, Wallmapu  Ecologist Federation FECON - Costa Rica  Assembly for the life of Chilecito La Rioja-Argentina  Women's Water Defensors of Famatina Chilecito La Rioja-Argentina  Movement of Women of Kurdistan in Latin America  Assembly of Articulation of Peoples of Qollasuyo in the Argentine State  Mexican network of affected and affected by mining (RAMA) -México  Dialogue 2000-Jubilee Sur-Argentina  Articleção de Mulheres Brasileiras-Brazil  Friends of the Earth Argentina-Argentina  AND. 
P. 
C Pachakutik.  We will win workers' Argentina  Social Current and Politics Marabunta-Argentina  Convergence April 2-Chile  Socialist-Argentina democracy  ASL Libertarian Socialist Action-Argentina  The Board-Peru. 
We will be opened by opening roads-Argentina  Org Revolutionary Organization Guevaristas-Argentina  Political organization present by socialism "PPS" - Colombia  CPI current political current -Argentina  PRT Revolutionary Workers Party- México  Opt Political organization of the people and the workers-Mexico  Socialist-Mexico front  Revolutionary Party of the People-Mexico  Revolutionary Party of Workers (PRT) -México  Political Organization of the People and Workers (OPT) -México  Popular Unit of Ecuador-Ecuador  Social and Political Organization Los Pibes  Comuna Caribe de Puerto Rico  Socialist alternative movement - Mas Panama. 
Revolutionary Socialist Coordinator of Mexico  Weaving Revolutionary Organization (Tor) Mexico  Corrales Galpón - Uruguay  District Association of WORKERS AND EDUCATION Workers - ADE, Syndicate of the Magisterium in Bogotá, Colombia,  Emancipation. 
Movement of popular education and critical pedagogies-Chile. 
Regrip - Rede Brasileira Pela Integração two povos  GENDER AND TRADE NETWORK  Collective of black women insurgent braids  Resistance-Psol-Brazil  Integral processes for the self-management of the peoples  Popular Education Council of Latin America and the Caribbean-Collective Costa Rica  NGO EDUCAMOR - Isle of Tinhare Bahia- Brazil  Sun of Peace Pachakuti - Spain  Social Equality - Argentina   Adhesions:   Fruit-urban resistance. 
Org.  Communication @ Conaie. 
org  . 
