#SospueBlilhuararutam  Mayaik, April 13, 2020  Mr. 
Lenin Moreno President of the Republic of Ecuador  Ms. 
Alexandra Ocles Risk Management Secretary  Mr. 
Juan Carlos Zevallos López Public Health Minister of Ecuador  Mr. 
Coordination room and timely and integrated response for the COVID-19 pandemic of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR)  Mr. 
Arnaud Peral Resident Coordinator UN Ecuador  In his office:  Between March 1 and 4 of this year, in Toronto - Canada, the "first-level exploration and mining convention" was developed, ignoring several suggestions that it should be canceled by the expansion of the Covid-19 that has already generated alarm in Several European countries, Southeast Asia and Canada. 
Among the participants of this Convention were seven people from the Shuar Warints and Yawi centers, Nunkui Association of the Canton Limón Indanza, Province of Morona Santiago, guests by the Canadian company Solaris Resources / Equinox Gold and its subsidiary in Ecuador, Lowell Copper Holdings . 
It is public knowledge that several of the participants were infected by Covid-19, including Burkina Faso Minister in West Africa, after which 146 people would have been contagious in that country. 
The Governing Council of the PSHA, together with the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar Centers (FICSH), Confédae and Conaie before the State Declaration of Exception by the Sanitary Emergency in Ecuador, we activate our Protocols for Protection and Restriction of the Circulation of People, as well as as the permanent monitoring of our territories. 
On April 2, the President of the Governing Council of the PSHA, Josefina Tunki, communicated this situation to the Governor of Morona Santiago, the Ombudsman and the Coordinator of the Zonal Health 6 and requested that, in coordination with the Governing Council of the Shuar Arutam people, implement the necessary and culturally adequate measures to prevent and contain the contagion of the Virus in the Shuar nationality. 
It was requested to determine if the death of one of the travelers, occurred after his return from Canada, is due to Covid-19. 
Given this, the Governor of Morona, Juan León Pilco, through the means of communication expresses himself, replied that "the protocols were effectively fulfilled, this mining extraction company fulfilled satisfaction" and affirmed, without offering any evidence, which The death reported in Warints "has nothing to do with the people who traveled to Canada." 
In addition, he censored the PSHA president's performance. 
On April 10, the father of another of the aforementioned Convention died and in recent days, from the Shuar Warints and Yawi centers, we have reported the names of more people who feel ill. 
To the foregoing, it is necessary to add that the mobilization of military to the territories has not stopped and conducts without proper precautions against the COVID-19. 
Personnel from the jungle brigades continue to rotate without taking any caution, as happens in the TiWintza canton where a case of CO-19 was already confirmed. 
Currently the military camp is in quarantine. 
Indigenous peoples consume ancestral practices of emergency emergency protection, including territorial management; However, these are violated by the actions and omissions of the authorities. 
It is inexplicable that the state-of-the-art decree for the health emergency, dictated by the 16 demarm, has except for the extractive activities of the restriction of mobility needed to prevent containing the pandemic. 
The constant rotation of personnel alien to the regions where they are developed are a factor of high risk of propagation and danger to all communitiesLocals, indigenous or not. 
Direct benefit that unjustified exception represents for mining operators in the area, companies Lowell Mineral, Solgold / Cruz del Sol, Aurrana Resources / EcuaSolidus, Luminex Resources-BHP / Projectmin, Explorcobres, Equal CORRIVERS, among others, increases the vulnerability of Warints, Yawi and other centers and member associations of the Shuar Arutam people. 
The Ecuadorian Government has an obligation to give an urgent, culturally adequate response, which prioritizes the right to life and cultural integrity, as posed by the numeral 57 of Resolution 1/2020, adopted by the IACHR on April 10, 2020 , on pandemic and ddhh in the Americas who commands:  Extreme measures to protect the human rights of indigenous peoples within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic, taking into account that these groups have the right to receive health care with cultural relevance, which take into account preventative care, Healing practices and traditional medicines. 
For the foregoing we demand:  1. 
That the National and Provincial COE as well as the Ministry of Public Health implement effective response actions against the deaths recorded in Warints, in application of the principle of precaution before the suspicion that these deaths have been due to COVID-19. 
In coordination with the PSHA and always in observation of the principle of consent, previous, free and informed, the tests must be applied to determine possible contagions in the surroundings of the travelers to the mining appointment in Canada; Establish an effective epidemiological fence that includes the provision of the necessary minimals of food and survival so that quarantine can be fulfilled in dignity; and provide timely care and treatment, according to the right to comprehensive health (Political Constitution 2008), including the necessary palliative medications and care, to the persons who involved. 
2. 
That the MSP perform massive tests in the PSHA territory that allow the identification of symptomatic and asymptomatic contagious people as an urgent measure to contain the expansion of the virus, prioritizing the sampling in the Shuar centers indicated. 
3. 
That the National and Provincial COE establishes immediately, and in coordination with the Government Conjection of the PSHA, the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar Centers (FICSH), Conféniae, Conaie, joint and coordinated actions for the implementation of a system of ethnic epidemiological surveillance of the pandemic. 
4. 
That the National, Provincial COE and the Decentralized Autonomous Governments urgently deliver humanitarian aid as food (to guarantee in a special way the nutrition of our children, adolescents and the elderly), medicines, cleaning kits and disinfection at all The centers of the Shuar Arutam people. 
5. 
That the Ombudsman's Office of the National and Provincial people activate their role of guarantors of rights so that the Ministry of Health and the Provincial COE assume its obligations directly and transparenate the information to the Government Structures of the Shuar Arutam, their partnership and centers and, guarantee cultural relevance in all its actions. 
6. 
That the Executive and the National COE prioritize the rights to dignified life, health, physical integrity, consent and self-determination of the Shuar Arutam people over the extractive activities in their territory. 
The incompatibility of mining extractive activities and the rights of peoples must always be resolved in our favor, particularly, in cases where the historical experience and the precautionary principle obliges to stop activities and / or establish moratoria to not risk our lives. 
The Amazonian indigenous peoples, historically we have been highly vulnerable to Western diseases and epidemics. 
In addition, understanding that maintaining these activities prevent the fulfillment of the quarantine and isolation required to avoid and contain the pandemic, the immediate departure of the PSHA of Personnel of the Extractive Employment and Personnel of the Armed Forces destined for its protection. 
For more information:  Josefina Tunki President of the Shuar Arutam Town: 096 203 2831 Email: Josefinatunki1962 @ Hotmail. 
com  Gallo Chup External Management Shuar Arutam Phone: 098 505 3816 Email: Kurich2015 @ Hotmail. 
com  Marcelo Unkuch External Management Shuar Arutam Phone: 096 183 9233 Email: Marcelounkuchp @ Hotmail. 
com

They adhere to this letter: Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador - Conaie Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Amazon of Ecuador - Confederation Kichwa del Ecuador, ECUARUNARI FEDERATION OF CENTERS AWÁ DEL ECUADOR AND THE GREAT FAMILY AWÁ BINACIÓN (Emeraldas-Carchi) Federation Indigenous and peasant of Imbabura, Fici Network of Social Organizations Coordinator, Redcone (emeralds) Social Actors of the Parish "July 6, Cuellaje" Assembly of the Cantonal Unit of Cotacachi, AUCC (Imbabura) Assembly of the peoples of the South , APS Association of Agroecological Peasants of Intag, ACAI Association of Northern Producers, APT-Norte Association of Rural Landowners North Shuar Association (Morona Santiago) Forest Protector Los Cedros (Imbabura) Cabildo by Water Country Basin Collective Walkers of anthropologists collective geography critical collective Ecuador of the parroqui As Chical and Maldonado (Carchi) collective Mindo is life Committee in defense of life and the rights of nature, parishes Burned Palo and 9. 
Pampas (Cotopaxi) Community A'i Cofán Sinangoe (Sucumbíos) Amazonian Indigenous Community of Social Action Cordillera del Cóndor, Cascomi (Zamora Chinchipe) Cantonal Coordinator for the Defense of Life, Water and Nature Canton Pallatanga Ecuadorian Coordinator of Organizations for the Defense of the Environment and Nature, Cedenma National Coordinator Campesina Eloy Alfaro Sacred Basins Territories for Life Ecuador-Peru Defense and Ecological Conservation of Intag DeCoin (Imbaura) Ecuador decides Federation of peasant and indigenous organizations of Azuay, FOA Front Defense of the Northwest Pichincha Provincial front for the defense of the Pachamama and Life (Bolivar) Group Kanaka Daughters of corn - Saramanta Warmikuna Information Village Luna Growth BioGion of the Andean Chocó: Calacalí, Nono, Nanegal, Nanegalito, Pact, Guala and Mindo (Pichincha ) Observatory Social and Environmental Mining of Ecuador, Omasne Parliament Popular and Plurinac IMO Female and Organizations Feminist Social Pastoral - Cáritas de Esmeraldas Network Young Chocó Andino Being Animal Water Community System of Girón (Azuay) Earth and Life - Cedocut Union Earth And Life Yasunidos Yasunidos Gapondélig (Azuay) Ecological Action Amazon Frontlines Amazon Watch Latin American Association For alternative development, Aldea Latin American Association of Social Medicine, Alames Environmental Clinic Human Rights Ecumenical Commission, CEDhu Corporación Toisán (Imbabura) Fian Ecuador Foundation Cambugán Fundación Pachamama Regional Foundation of Human Rights Advice - Inredh Gaia - Earth Vive Institute of Ecologist Studies From Third World Land is Life Surkunategantai - Ecologist News Agency


. 
