The alleged criminalization of social protest is one of the main concerns of the indigenous leadership, a month after Rafael Correa's mandate. 
And it is also a priority to think about possible approaches between the indigenous people and the elected president. 
Lenín Moreno made his goal his goal of restoring his relationship with Conaie. 
But good intentions are not enough for the indigenous leadership, according to the President of ECUARNARI and member of the Governing Council of the Conaie, Carlos Pérez Guarkambel. 
On the past Thursday Agustín Wachapá, president of the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar Centers (FICSH), received substitute measures by a complaint against him, supposedly, having publicly called the aggression of the public force. 
After paying a bail of USD 6,000, it will be able to defend itself in freedom. 
Among the accusations against Wachapá weighs the death of Police José Mejía, after clashes between police and military and inhabitants who protested against the mining project in Panantza, in Morona Santiago. 
He was imprisoned, and on December 21, Judge Yolanda Ottati issued preventive detention. 
According to Conaie, 98 people face legal proceedings by attack and resistance, terrorism, rebellion, among others. 
The organization summarizes everything in political persecution. 
Harold Burbano, Conaie's lawyer, points out that 16 people already fulfilled his sentence and 36 have not yet received capture ballots or are found in hiding. 
Several cases arose from the protests of August 2015, which were initiated by political issues, such as amendments to the Constitution or mining and oil projects. 
A change of government is an opportunity for approaches, according to the exalcalde de Quito, militant of Country and Professor Alliance of Flacso, Augusto Barrera. 
As a personal capacity, he considers unfortunate that there are sectors of the opposition posed by a confrontative strategy from the beginning. 
But it believes that it is time to take the word of Moreno to design a model based on dialogue and concertation. 
Barrier affirms that there are four priority sectors for that dialogue: the productive; that of social organization and agrarian policy; education and health; and the themes mining and public order. 
But to achieve true progress, there should not be an insurmountable position, but a willingness to build a common ground. 
For this, "says Barrera, there should be no preconditions. 
He believes that before freeing detainees or closing processes, it is important to analyze case by case. 
This is -Asurance - is not a government decision but should be based on legal proceedings. 
For this, there are at least three ways: that the Executive declares an adult, that the Assembly process an amnesty or that resources of revision of judgments are raised. 
To reach conclusions, "he says - it will be necessary to review firm sentences, processes, levels of violence, etc. 
and that the persecution of ideas can not or should not exist. 
For the Assemblyman elected Augusto Espinosa a possible pardon does not imply allowing the generation of violence or making crimes without sanctioning. 
In the middle of the debate, Humberto Cholango has tested a mediator position. 
He went to a meeting between Moreno and indigenous leaders related to the regime. 
There he explained the concerns of the Conaie, in a personal capacity. 
From that position, it states that stagnation in cases such as Saraguro, or the process against Jorge Herrera, president of the CONAIE, by paralysis of public services, are samples of good will of the new government. 
"I know the subject in a closer way," he said, and for that he also believes that also the replacement measures for Wachapá can mean real progress in a reconciliation between the ruling and conaie. 
Pérez Gartambel celebrates any possibility of sincere and honest dialogue, but says that Conaie would not lend itself "to be used as a folklor more than the correity." 
If there is a true intention of dialogue, this should focus on the central problem: extractivism. 
According to his criteria, it is necessary to avoid being broken by breaking, contaminating and reaching cases of deaths such as those of Freddy Taish, Bosco Wisuma and José Tendentza. 
Pérez faces a process of course cell philics to police, in the 2015 uprising, and was imprisoned for 18 days between 2009 and 2014; He believes that resuming relationships is not possible yet. 
Remember that in 2007, the constituent already applied an amnesty, but 10 years later the social problem persists. 
Source: Trade  . 
