Press release  Nab칩n, Azuay, August 5, 2015  At this time, the detection of an agent infiltrated in the march of the south is urgently reported, when it is about 10 minutes from O침a, Province of Azuay. 
The intercepted agent, according to declarations of the feeding equipment of the march, was identified by getting off a Tucson car and approaching the pots of the village food for allegedly poison it. 
Faced with the popular alarm generated, the police stopped the suspect, but, disrespecting our right to the application of Community justice by finding us in indigenous territories, took it in a patrolman without giving greater explanations. 
In another harassment action, unknown people lowered the food supply car rim. 
We reject and denounce these actions of intimidation that since the beginning of the demonstration have been propitiating and that constitute an attack against rights the dealers to mobilize. 
In the leaders' interventions, it has been clearly expressed that the route is held with the popular support in a totally peaceful way, so we responsible for the government of any event that attempts against the integrity of our mobilized colleagues. 
On the other hand, in front of the reforms announced to Decree 16 by the Executive, the indigenous movement has expressed its rejection since one of the central approaches of mobilization is the derogatory of this decree, by attempting against the autonomy of social organizations from the country. 
Therefore, the changes made will not stop the call to survey and national unemployment and rather give it more arguments, the leaders have expressed. 
The popular support grows in Azuay with organizations such as the Assembly of South Peoples, the Unitary Coordinator of Social Organizations and Movements of Azuay, the front of small and medium farmers and others that demonstrate their solidarity and strongly support the route. 
Likewise, the foundations of the Federation of organizations of Azuay Foa adhere to the march. 
Today, the march will cross several parishes and cantons of the Azuay province, including Nab칩n, to advance to Portete Victoria and make its entrance to the city of Cuenca in the afternoon where a massive reception is prepared. 
The demonstrators will arrive at Calder칩n Park and will end the tour in the Plazoleta de Santo Domingo. 
Long live the march, firm preparing the survey and national unemployment!  No to the actions of intimidation and harassment to our colleagues!  Rejection of Boicot attempts to our legitimate mobilization!  Conaie communication  . 
