Taken from Ocaru.  Text: ISA Salcedo  Photography: Nina Riggio  For several months, the shipped trades have not had answers. 
Since May 2015, at which time the first debate of the ordinance, the comuneros of the communes and communities of the Ilahaló and Lumbisí have insisted on being received by the mayor of Quito, Mauricio Rodas. 
Yesterday, December 10, 200 Communists again concentrated in the vicinity of the municipality of Quito with the particularity that, on this occasion, the communes of Santa Clara de San Millán and Cochotog were added. 
The objective of the colleagues was to deliver a proposal at a more general level of the communes of the Metropolitan District of Quito where the three main axes on land and territory, justice and collective rights are ratified. 
"The maximum authority of the communes are the assemblies and we want to be received by the mayor and not by his advisors": says Fernando Cabascango, President of the Kitu Kara people. 
The active participation of the communes reveals, once again, the unit process that is reinforced for months. 
In the midst of the protests of sex workers and retirees who remain located in the same place, slogans as: "Comunas del Cerro Ilahated, present!"; "Fighting, creating popular power"; "Fighting, creating communal power"; "The commune is not sold, the commune is defended"; "Down the ordinance that affects the communal territory, down!" They become hollow between the crowds. 
In the statements made to the present media, Gerardo Simbaña, leader of the commune Tola Girl, points out that the Ordinance aims to control the communal lands and ignore the Communal Authority represented by the General Assemblies and the Labildos. 
While the comuneros continue with their demands in front of the municipality, some delegates are received within the institution by Absalus Rocha, adviser to Mayor Mauricio Rodas. 
"As the 2008 Constitution says, no secondary law can violate constitutional law. 
The Law of 2008 ratifies what was said in 1998: Comunas are territorial authorities. 
"Fernando Cabascango converses with the mayor's advisor next to some delegates of the communes highlighting that a real dialogue table is needed. 
Among the meeting agreements with the advisor, the need to arm a hearing is highlighted once again, the request for the file of ordinance by the communes. 
Once concentrated again on the exteriors of the municipality, Cabascango socializes agreements with comrades and colleagues and expresses the need to continue pressing so that the 21 points of their proposal are incorporated into the new territorial planning plan for next year. 
Finally, each of the representatives of the communes are dismissed waiting to receive next Monday, December 14, notification for the future and decisive audience with Mayor Mauricio Rodas. 
The proposal with its 21 points of the communes and communities can be downloaded here  Query Previous notes:  "The ordinance will not happen, with the communes it will come up". 
The proposal of the communes calls the dialogue with the municipality of the DMQ  "The communes are standing"  Photogalería:  Source: http: // www. 
Ocaru. 
org. 
ec/index. 
php / debate-rural / communes-dmq / item / 6181-fight-creating-power-communal-the-communal-and-communities-of-illo-y-lumbisi-continue-of-foot  . 
