Freedom for the 21 of the tree!  The friends and relatives of the detainees on December 3 denounced before the Ecuadorians and the world, the brutal violence with which the National Police repressed the free right of people to express their disagreement with the approval of the constitutional amendments. 
We consider that an operation in which mounted cavalry, dogs, anti-riot cars, motorcycles and numerous pickets of strongly armored police, which exceed the protesters, can not be considered as a legitimate act, necessary and proportional for progressive use of the strength. 
We reject the arrests that occurred within the framework of this operation, in which indiscriminate and discretionary was deprived of freedom both people who were participating in peacefully manifestation, as well as others who did not participate in it, If not that they went to their homes or passed through the place. 
We condemn the impossibility of accessing an independent and impartial justice administration. 
The judgment issued on December 4 against our family and friends is a demonstration more of the use of criminal legislation as a mechanism to silence and discipline society. 
In this sense, we arise about the scope and implications of Article 396 numeral 1, which served as the basis for this judgment that says: "Those who profied expressions in discredit or dishonor against another person will be deprived of freedom between 15 and 30 days". 
We maintain that this ruling does not keep correspondence with the proof that was acted during the process, since the policemen who appeared as witnesses could not identify any of the detainees as caused by the facts. 
In this way, our family and friends were convicted without being proven to guilty. 
In addition, due process was violated, when carrying out a collective and non-individualized judgment; and allow public defense, in a fact that denatures its role, act in defense of the police and as an accusing of our relatives. 
We expose with indignation some of the irregularities and vulnerations that we face as relatives as a result of detention:  - We have been denied the right to timely information about the place where our relatives were retained, knowing their state of health, the charges against them and the times for their judgment. 
- An attempt was made to prevent us from the right to be present at the public hearing of judgment. 
- We have been prevented from the right to enter personal contact or by telephone with our relatives, deliver food, medicines and even reading material. 
We reaffirm that our relatives are innocent and that they did not use violence but this one came from the State. 
For this reason, we ask society not to close their eyes or be indifferent to abuse and runoff committed; And we invite you to support our requirement of:  Freedom for the 21 of the tree!  No more political prisoners in Ecuador!  . 
