The liberation of women is the liberation of our peoples  The women of Ecuador we put our voices. 
This 8m joined us to walk together all: Indian women, Montubias, Afro-Mente, Mestizas, Campo and the City, Cyclists, Students, Housewives, Professionals, Young People and Adults, Lesbians, Trans. 
We recognize ourselves in the struggles of our ancestors, the manuelas, the quilas, the pains and all those who marked the story with their lives so that our voices are heard today and our action is strengthened. 
We get up and we mobilized  This March 8, we return to raise our cry to tell the whole world that women resisted ourselves to continue to hold with our remunerated and unpaid work a system that has historically preachaded our lives, those of our families and our peoples. 
We will not remain motionless in front of the worrying rise of rights and the most conservative sectors in our region, which threaten to sharpen the interference of the Church and the State in our sexual and reproductive bodies and decisions. 
We resist before heteronormativity as imposition and we transform it. 
We defend public goods because it is our: we will not allow your privatization. 
We mobilized against the expoliation of the territories, in the face of the precarization of life, neoliberal and antipopular policies, economic measures, the increase in the price of fuels that make life, decreased budgets for education, health, culture , environment. 
We rise to demand the implementation of the integral prevention and eradication system of gender violence against women, against privatizations of the country's strategic sectors, the agreement with the IMF and submission to the structural reforms that impose us at the expense of Our sovereignty, to the unconsults and inconveniences megaminera, oil and hydroelectric concessions and for the defense of the Ecuadorian Social Security Institute. 
We demand that violence against women and transgender people stop, and we do not accept the discourse that aims to treat gender violence as an individual, partner or isolated cases, ignoring the structural nature that makes its exercise possible. 
We demand that the State assume its responsibility with the lives of women, to come out of silence and the accomplices. 
We call society to get out of indifference: violence against us is not a problem of women, it is all society. 
We demand from men to respond to the crisis of masculinity by which society crosses: it is you who owe and can interpepize and transform the Androcentric Masculinity. 
Its role is to recognize the historical privileges they possess, reject them every day and publicly and build egalitarian forms of relationship in all spaces. 
We interprete to the educational system that domestic and controls femininity and that promulgates sexism and heteronormativity as unique development routes. 
We reaffirm us in the defense of a secular, free and feminist education. 
This 8m will make a date of commemoration and fight, calling the strike as a mechanism to demonstrate the exploitation that all working people live in this country, men and women. 
This 8m we propose to walk towards other forms of relationships and to non-violent sexualities, we accompany those who decide to abort and affirm that abortion is our autonomy. 
This 8m demand justice for our dead, for those who were imprisoned for abortion, for those who were dismissed from their work, for those who were exploited, for those who were violated by defending their territories, for those who were expropriated from their lands, for those who were colonized in knowledge. 
We recognize women who are on the first line, placing the body: we think of Shuar's companions of Morona Santiago, the peasants of Molleturo, Girón and Victoria del Portete in Azuay, the Amazonian women attacked by the Public Force and pro-oil groups and pro-miners; In the mangrovers attacked by the owners of the shrimp, in women violated by medical personnel and denounced by a system foreign to human rights, conservative and in many cases openly misogynery. 
We walked next to the enslaved Furukawa workers; Women with disabilities who interpel us; Migrant women who work and expose our xenophobia; Migrant Ecuadorian women who hold the economy. 
We demand respect for our rights, bodies and territories:  That the agreement with the IMF is annulled and the privatization plans of the strategic sectors are stopped. 
Establish mechanisms of Veeduría and Control so that labor rights, particularly pregnant women, and the principle of gender equality is applied. 
Accelerate the passage of the Ecuadorian State, member of the ILO, for the approval of Convention 190, for the protection of the rights of workers. 
Return to IESS funds that the State took, without any right. 
That support policies are established in various areas oriented to help and improve the quality of life of single mothers and their families. 
That the gender approach is incorporated as a transversal axis in the formulation of public services. 
Formulate economic measures to benefit the most impoverished sectors of the country, the peoples and nationalities of Ecuador and women, to face the economic crisis with equity and gender justice. 
That the rights of peasants and peasants are recognized and special protection measures are established for those who produce most of the foods that supply at the national level. 
We reject violence, exclusion and discrimination in the work and educational field that pushes trans people to precarious lives. 
To be encouraged and facilitated the establishment of agroecological and peasant fairs in general as a mechanism to improve the quality of life of peasant women. 
The immediate cessation of harassment and threats to our partners who put the body and defend their territories of the extractive industries, which decide on their bodies, which question and denounce unjust working conditions. 
That the threats that women have received defenders of life have been investigated and a comprehensive reparation of women who have been abused and stripped to give way to extractive projects. 
That declare an oil moratorium and mega mining throughout the country and a comprehensive and independent evaluation of the situation of women in the exploitation and exploration zones, especially in the North Amazon, which allows them to determine the particularities of violence That women live in these contexts to take concrete actions. 
· Establish programs of control and protection to women, Ecuadorians and migrants in border areas and where the extractive industry operates, mainly aimed at the reduction of sexual exploitation and trafficking in women and girls. 
That a health policy is implemented in the areas of border and zones intervened by the extractive industries (oil, mining, agroindustry) in which women, boys and girls are taken care of by the particular health problems generated by pollution. 
· That concrete actions are taken to eradicate violence against women, the return of 96% of the budget necessary for the implementation of the Integral Organic Act of Prevention and Eradication of Gender Violence against Women, and the Social and Legal decriminalization of the Abortion at least in the causal of rape as a historical debt with the women of Ecuador. 
That the therapeutic abortion clinical practice guide approved in 2014 is applied, respecting the right to women to enjoy the benefits of scientific progress. 
That the work and knowledge of midwives in humanized labor and intercultural births are recognized, as well as women's right to choose from. 
Let the persecution and criminalization of women by abortion are freed. 
That no woman is forced to be a mother. 
That measures are taken to move from one punitive approach to another that prevents the actions of all forms of violence against sexogenific women and diversities. 
That the Justice System incorporates the gender approach into the training of justice operators and procedures that guarantee the comprehensive care of victims of macho violence, and which raises a total debugging aimed at sanctioning and replacing all that staff that allows impunity in Cases of rape, murders and violations in general to women. 
The establishment of the comprehensive national system to prevent and eradicate violence against women, the effective coordination and response of all responsible entities. 
The express inclusion of trans and transfemenin women in the typification of murders by femicide. 
We advocate for a childhood and adolescence free of homophobia and transphobia, where the diversity of trans childhood is respected. 
Mandatory sex education programs are established with a gender approach, in schools and schools aimed at the use of contraception and to transform the macho and patriarchal gaze. 
Reject emphatically the use of women's demands as arguments of the current electoral campaigns. 
Evaluate the educational system that promotes violence against women and facilitates impunity. 
We demand and we urgently believe the denaturation of violence and respect for our bodies and our lives, in public and private space; in the house, and in the work space; We want to be able to walk through the streets and live in societies where we are not murdered or violated in any way. 
Because the bonfires could not burn our grandmothers, because the cross and the colonial violence did not stole all our knowledge for life; Because the school and the Church have not managed to domesticate our desire and pleasure. 
We place our place in history, from below to the left and from within, there we build multiple, diverse and colorful dreams, then we will weave collective proposals. 
We are here, fighting through a world where the relationships between men and women are transformed, in a framework of equilibrium between human beings, men and women, and the Pachamama. 
We get together to continue building a popular and anticapitalist feminism that places at the center the joy, a feminism that repairs and who heals the wounds that lacerate us. 
We recognize that the emancipation of women in all their diversity is fundamental on the road to the liberation of peoples. 
Because we believe that another world is possible we go together to strike, we go together to stop the world, because if the world does not recognize our work, then continue without us. 
We are convinced that another world is possible, we go together to the strike, we go together to stop the world, until it is a world of justice and equality. 
Concant organizations:
Women for change
Women walking
Interuniversity Coalition against Harassment
Student Committee Flafso Commission Gender
Collective from the margin
Free abortion EC.
Conaie.
VILLAGE
Red host homes for victims Intrafamily violence
Magdalenas Ecuador
Women Association Nela Martínez
National platform of women
Walking towards equality
Accompaniment network in abortion The messages
African Skin Conamune.
Front of the working woman - CEOSL
To struggle
Flower of the guairo.
Collective critical geography
Women in front
Collective feminist work social uce
Movement of women from popular sectors crescent moon
The feminist collective
IFTH.
Transgender project.
March of the whores Ecuador
Untha - National Union of Home Workers and Likes
Iniged.
Federation of secondary students of Ecuador
Box Savings Julián Quito
Justice for Vanesa.
Koncha Batukeada.
Student Council of Local Development UPS
Vivas platform we want
Layers
Feminist insurrection
World Bicycle Forum
Collective collective rue
Alames
Aldhea
National platform for women's rights
Women's Committee ISP
Collective is enough!
Collective feminist more than eight
Collective Dignity Without Borders
The Green City Ibarra
Mining, social and environmental observatory of northern Ecuador
Batuka Batuka Batumbá.
Surkuna.
Federation of succumbish women
María Amor Foundation
Patou Solidarité Foundation
House joined hands knitting progress
Ayllu Huarmicuna Foundation
. 
