The communities, towns, nationalities and organizations articulated through Conaie re gathered on May 21 with the Minister of Telecommunication, Guillermo León, with the aim of seeking mechanism that enable frequency award for the Community sector. 
The meeting is the result of the dialogue that has conaie and national government. 
The telecommunication minister emphasized the opening of this state portfolio to deal with priority issues linked to the community media of peoples and nationalities. 
By the Conaie, Apawki Castro, communication leader, socialized the content of the mandate before the state authorities. 
Guillermo León and Humberto Cholango. 
The proposal consists of three blocks: the first are those organizations that participated in the public frequency contest process, passed the Arcotel review stage and are in Cordicom. 
In the second block there are those peoples who achieved the enabling title, but they need affirmative action measures for their respective implementation. 
While, the third sector corresponds, in particular, the radios of the nationalities that are operating, but that they failed to be part of the current contest that is intervened by Comptroller. 
KIPA Radio del Village Saraguro is one of the cases of the second block that deserves urgent treatment for its implementation. 
Guillermo León, who presides over this state portfolio, said "We do not offer anything, but it is our obligation to enforce the law." 
Apawki Castro, leader of the CONAIE, stressed the struggle that the people and nationalities do for the exercise of communicarian communicity from the indigenous sector. 
"We must seek concrete outputs of this dialogue process," he said. 
This meeting that had as the main actors to the voices of the communities represented in their directories of communication and presidents, who were able to give their versions of conflicts faced in the contest and allocation of frequencies and in the exercise of Community communication. 
The Contest Process for the Assignment of Radio Frequencies initiated in 2016 has not given effective results for the democratization of the radio spectrum. 
At the close of the meeting, they came to some agreements, taking into consideration the reality of each of the means of communities, peoples and nationalities. 
Conaie communication  . 
