Today's morning, fly 15 July, a press conference of the national collective was held composed of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE), the Unitary Front of Workers (FUT) and the Popular Front, to present the political proposal and economical, called Minga for life to face the crisis. 
They were present At Apawki Castro, communication leader of the Conaie, Nelson Erazo, President of the Popular Front, Edwin Bedoya, Representative of Fut, Carlos Sucuzhañay, President Ecuarunari, Alejandra Santillana of the Parliament of Women. 
Jaime Vargas, president of the CONAIE could not be present because in the last weeks of July 2020, several leaders and leaders of the various organizations have lost their lives in this fight against COVID-19, as is the case of founding members of the NAE organizations, Conféniae, Conaie: Miguel Eduardo Vargas, Dad de Marlon Vargas, president of Conféniae; Jorge Puanchir, Jaime Vargas grandfather. 
Historical references by whom the indigenous movement declared a 3-day duel throughout the territory of indigenous peoples and nationalities. 
The collective analysis was that for the vast majority of the population, 4 months after the beginning of the pandemic, it is still difficult and impossible to comply with the norms of "social distancing", since around 3.8 million families live in precarious homes; and 1.37 million households live in overcrowding conditions and without access to basic health services. 
This situation causes the health crisis to leave as one of its tragic results more than 21. 
000 deceased between March and June this year  , many more than those recorded last year, in the same period. 
Apawki Castro, communication leader of the Conaie pointed out that this reality the country can not bear, and citizenship is fed up with candidates with deceptive discourses that promise "fix the country in the first 100 minutes of government", as society we are tired of demagogon and populism as the only way to make politics. 
Nor can the country fall into a popular consultation such as Nebot proposes, almost like a personal whim, with the only desire to start shaping a state for sociallycristian interests. 
The country does not have the money or deserves a political mockery with a consultation of that type, he said. 
With regard to the email strategy, he mentioned that his goal is to polarize, awarding the supposed representation of the left, something that history has already shown that it is not like that, with which they not only weaken the organizations, but they represent an obstacle For the entire popular field, they are still a job for the progress of popular organizations. 
In Ecuador there is a third way that social organizations, peoples and nationalities, workers, students, communes, neighborhoods, collectives and all the oppressed and exploited people, from where a base proposal arises, whose intention is to generate a space of debate and Union of peoples, a basis for the construction of popular power. 
On the proposal of the Parliament of the Peoples called "Minge for Life", Apawki Castro emphasized that it is the response to an extreme crisis scenario produced by the neoliberal policies implemented since the last years of correor and radicalized during the Government of Moreno in agreement With the economic elites of the country, which has brought a catastrophic crisis that has been downloaded on the working class. 
The pandemic Covid-19 has sharpened the crisis scenario, it is not the cause; And in a miserable way this Government has taken advantage of the pandemic to implement policies such as labor reform and budget cuts, which is an old aspiration of business groups to raise their profit rates. 
The "Minge for Life" bases its economic proposal in the redistribution of wealth, which the crisis is paid by rich, a contribution of 1% is proposed on the assets of the 270 larger economic groups; as well as a contribution of 2% over the individual heritage superior to a million dollars. 
The urgent need for a tax law on the great fortunes in the hands of the hegemonic groups Lasso, EGAS, Noboa, etc. 
, increase the income tax on companies with profits over a million dollars; maximum tax rates to large economic groups (270), as well as extraordinary earnings (from companies with profits exceeding 20% per year on equity); Increase in 2 percentage points the income tax on companies and people who have deposits in tax havens. 
On the other hand, the national collective noted that the economy of the small and microentrepreneur sector needs to be alleviated and thus achieve equity of opportunities, therefore, the proposal includes eliminating income tax for micro and small businesses, ensuring and reducing VAT to 10% 
Collect the tax debts of the great groups of economic power, suspension of the payment of the external debt and the realization of an audit to the external debt acquired since 2014 to date, as well as the renegotiation of the contracts of the strategic sectors. 
In the economic-social, there are two fundamental proposals, the universal basic income and the universalization of the Social Security System, the State must guarantee its contribution to IESS, it can not remain the girl's box of each Government. 
We hope that this proposal is a point of debate with all sectors of the country, and the popular class unit tool, only the organization will take us out of the crisis and the disaster in which we are. 
On July 30, this proposal will be launched broadly and massively from the Parliament of the Peoples. 
Long live the unity of the villages, peasants, workers, workers, women and men!  . 
