Press release  Macuma, August 9, 2015  In the Parish Macuma, Canton Taisha, Province of Morona Santiago, the 8th Convention of the Inter Federation Committee was carried out, with the active concurrence of the delegations of the Achuar Nationality of Ecuador Nae, Nation Shuar del Ecuador Nashe, Interprovincial Federation of Centers Shuar FICSH and Mestizo town. 
The legitimate presidents of the federations were present: Agustín Wachapa (FICSH), Rafael Washicta (NASHE), Franco Viteri (Confédae), Rómulo Acacho, Vice President Conaie and Jaime Vargas, coordinator of the Inter Federation Committee. 
Domingo Ankuash, president of the Board of the Convention, stressed in his inaugural words: "If infiltrated agents, military or concealed police, government allies, who listen and record: here is nothing secret, here we are clear, direct , transparent and we say that here we have come to defend rights, here we are against a government that attentive against our territory, here we are against an extractivist model that seeks to exterminate. 
Our rejection of the capitalist measures of a government that is said socialist when the True Socialists are the indigenous peoples that we practice solidarity and Community in our centers, communities and associations. " 
Franco Viteri, president of Conféniae affirmed that "we have decided to go to uprising because the government is disrespective of our rights and before it is legitimate mobilized us. 
This territory where the roads that premunate the government is the territory of Shuar and Achuar nationalities are. 
Therefore, the resolutions that this convention adopt has all the support of the conference ". 
For its part, Rómulo Acacho, Vice President of the CONAIE, noted that "the leaders can not return the decisions of the bases and in the same way the government must respect the will of its constituents. 
On August 10, the great indigenous uprising begins and on August 13 we will be at the national unemployment, this is the decision that our bases have taken, "he said. 
Likewise, Agustín Wachapa, president of FICSH, ratified the decision to go to the survey and national unemployment; "This is an organic decision and what is resolved is fulfilled. 
We have decided to start the uprising on August 10 and we will not go back in the defense of our rights. " 
Jaime Vargas, outgoing coordinator of the Inter Federation Committee, clarified that there are the foundations that will make decisions and presidents must abide by, guide and address the resolutions and actions that this Convention defines. 
Unanimously the 8th Convention of the Inter Federation Committee decided to ratify its total support for uprising and national unemployment convened by Conaie, joining from August 10 to all the planned actions; The strategies are analyzed to the intern of the federations. 
From all the bases, the firm will to intervene in a decided manner was expressed; Among other expressions, the presidents of the majority associations of the Achuar nationality, who walked through the jungle for 6 hours from Taisha to go to the Assembly, with his dress, spears and paint on his face, fanned the participants so as not to be left Double for the arrogance of this Government and to fight with conviction along the entire Great Day of Mobilization that is coming. 
"The people are going to mobilize and we are not willing to return without results," he warned the bases. 
The same decision was manifested by the presidents of the subsidiary associations of the NASHE and FICSH. 
One of the main resolutions is the total rejection of oil and mining exploitation in the territories of nationalities, especially the advance of the 11th Oil Round, currently in the tender. 
Long live the indigenous lifting and national unemployment of the town!  Long live the nationality Achuar, Shuar and Mestizo town!  Outworked and oil companies of the Amazon!  That live the unit of the Inter Federation Committee!  Communication Conféniae.  . 
