Delegations of different nationalities that constitute the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-CONAIE together with its three regional meets in an expanded Council today, January 30, 2018, at the headquarters located north of Quito with the purpose of evaluating the dialogue process They keep with the national government. 
At the beginning of the Expanded Council, the leaders of the Regional intervened, those who expressed the nonconformity that exists in this process of dialogue from the beginning because there is no concrete responses. 
They pointed out that several shift governments have used the mechanism of dialogue to add political force in their favor without granting responses on the issues raised by the indigenous organization. 
Leaders who are at the head of the different tables reported the meetings that have been held with the ministries, but that there has been no response. 
The Tabs of Conaie are five: territory and biodiversity; economy; democracy, human and collective rights; education; And amnesty. 
The projects have already been elaborated from the tables, Jaime Vargas, president of Conaie, has been developed. 
After a long day of analysis and reflection, the CONAIE took some resolutions, such as: "Continue in the process of dialogue with the national government but that, through ministerial agreements, presidential decrees and other mechanisms reflect the concrete results to the proposals presented ". 
In addition, they resolve that "in compliance with President Lenín Moreno in the last dialogue with the CONAIE on December 11, 2017, it is fulfilled: the immediate suspension of new mining concessions throughout the national territory; urgent review of mining concessions that have violated the Constitution that is national legislation and international instruments; Restitution of the Bilingual Intercultural Education System; Legal recognition as a modality to the Community transport system; the price of milk according to current regulations; cessation of the persecution of agricidal to the producers of the communities; respect for the application of indigenous justice in tune with reality and the principles of plurinationality; And do not allow them to dilate in bureaucratic processes. " 
The case of massive scam and illegal collection of electonic money with cryptomones, Bitcoin, which is investigated by the indigenous and peasant movement of Cotopaxi-MICC was also analyzed. 
So they demand the national government that through the Council of the Judiciary, General Prosecutor of the State and Ministry of Justice to the tenor of the Constitution and international instruments, the unrestricted respect of indigenous jurisdiction and compliance with the Cooperation Agreement and coordination between indigenous justice and ordinary justice to resolve the case. 
The organization calls for unity between peoples, nationalities, and other popular social sectors so that the dialogue process has results, and be attentive not to allow the presence of public actors and servants who encourage division in our organizations. 
At the end of the event, it was reading to agreements and resolutions. 
In order to manage a meeting with Lenín Moreno for February 28, the different delegations returned to each of their provinces. 
Full resolutions in PDF  . 
