Press release  Latacunga, April 20, 2017  Agustín Wachapá, political prisoner of the correity, will be released under substitute measures after the hearing held this afternoon, Thursday, April 20, in Gualaquiza. 
This was the decision of the judge of the multicospetent judicial unit based in the canton. 
It will be free prior to canceling a (bail) of six thousand US dollars (6000 USD), and avail themselves to the imposed substitute measures. 
The sustained and tireless struggle of social organizations and the indigenous movement such as the Conaie, Confédae, FICSH and relatives for 4 months as political pressure allows the liberation of the social fighter and leader of the Shuar people who was imprisoned for defending his territory, human rights and From nature after the conflict generated by the presence of the Mining Camp La Esperanza in Nankints, a community that was evicted from its territory by the Public Force of Ecuador and delivered to the China Explicit Explain Minera Company. 
The ultimate manager Shuar was apprehended in December 2016 without knowing any cause and without the presentation of an order of capture at the time of detention, clear violation of constitutional rights. 
He is accused of the alleged crime of instigation at discord. 
The defense of the Ministry of the Interior presented as Test a publication made on Facebook by Wachapá. 
Judge Yolanda Ottati Lamb was responsible for issuing the court order for the transfer of Agustín to the maximum security prison located in Latacunga, 500 kilometers from the residence of Agustín. 
As Conaie and condenly we are glad that our brother Shuar leaves free, and can demonstrate his principle of innocence. 
Raising our protest voice against extractivist policies is not a crime. 
The case of Agustín is one more, which demonstrates how a system of justice subject to the executive power is a danger to the guarantee of human rights and the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and association. 
We urge that the release of other political prisoners as Stalin Robles be applied; that the persecution of our leaders stop; And we demand that the amnesty for social fighters and human rights defenders be granted immediately. 
Without amnesty there is no justice. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
