Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, November 15, 2018  National mobilization for water, life and against corruption convened by the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-CONAIE, together with the 15 nationalities and 18 peoples integrated in the Confederations Regional Confederations, CONAICE and ECUARUNARI, arrived on Wednesday, November 14 A Quito, after 11 days of walk and resistance for water, life and against corruption. 
The water march started on November 4th in Tundayme, Province of Zamora Chinchipe, and toured the territories of Loja, Saraguro, Cuenca, Avogues, Guaranda, Ambato, Latacunga and, finally the capital, Quito, to concentrate on the park of The tree 
In the afternoon, hundreds of people remained on the outskirts of the National Assembly to the expectation that the delegations of the different indigenous peoples and nationalities enter to comply, one of the main objectives of national mobilization, the delivery of the project of Organic Law of Prohibition of Metallic Mining in Ecuador to the President of the National Assembly, Elizabeth Cabezas. 
Simultaneously, another group of dealers accompanied another delegation from the Conaie who entered the General Comptroller of the State. 
Manuel Castillo, leader of the Conaie, said that the bill delivered to the Assembly raises a profound reform to mining and extractive activities, furthermore, mentioned that the indigenous movement has been permanent witness of the excessive corruption in mining companies. 
The agenda of national mobilization for Thursday, November 15 will be developed in Quito, to present President Lenin Moreno at the Carondelet Palace, the Conaie proposal for the construction of intercultural and plurinational state. 
The proposals revolve around limiting the extractive policies of the Ecuador State regarding hydroelectric projects, multilingual intercultural education, the integral economic development of communities, peoples and nationalities; Agrarian reform, land tenure, restitution of ancestral territories and CTIs, amnesty, freedom and guarantees of the exercise of collective rights, and communication for peoples and nationalities. 
In the province of Cotopaxi there will be the great provincial mobilization to demand responses to the redistribution of water, the alleged bombing to the clouds, low price of milk, community transport, among other demands. 
In addition, the Huancavilcas, Montubi peoples, the indigenous movement of Guayas and Mokipse will participate in a commemoration as of November 15. 
Meanwhile, from today, November 14, in the Amazon, the organizations of the Province of Pastaza take the Amazonian trunk to demand the exit of the Genefran hydroelectric plant from its territory, also, the women of the nationalities and peoples of the Amazon remains firm in its struggle for the defense of the Yasuní and the blocks 86 and 87. 
Thus, in coordination with the three regional ones that constitute the CONAIE, in different provinces the territorial actions of water resistance, life and against corruption. 
By the Governing Council  Conaie communication  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
