Different women's organizations at the international level convened the international end of women under the International Women's Day who is remembered worldwide. 
According to his spraices, they stand against patriarchy and capitalism. 
Indigenous women of Ecuador will perform different actions in the trance of the day. 
In the city of Puyo, women from different nationalities were mobilized by the center of the city proclaiming slogans of resistance and struggle for their territories, rights and their body. 
According to the Regional Organization of the Amazon Peoples and Nationalities, it points out that "indigenous women, mestizas, peasants are added to the international unemployment of women demanding extractivism in the territories, denouncing the violation of human rights to the Shuar people and especially A Women and girls (OS), gender violence that exists in communities. " 
The collective "Lives we love", a platform that agglutinates several women's organizations, including women Conaie, has planned to carry out a seedling at 4:30 pm in the Av Patria and October 12, at the forefront of the General Prosecutor's Office in Quito. 
According to the communiqué of the Platform points out that "we join unemployment because as women demand the State and society to guarantee our rights and that real policies are constructed that celend the inequality, violence that affects our lives. 
"  They add that within the electoral juncture by which the country is going through, eight would be their demands. 
We list below:  In Ecuador we are still murdered by the fact of being women, that is why we plead unemployment for a life free of violence against women; Against discrimination, forced disappearance, trafficking in women and feminicide as the most extreme and aggressive form of violence. 
In Ecuador, women continue to win minor salaries in the same type of work performed by men. 
We want an equitable world, where our labor rights are guaranteed. 
In Ecuador, domestic and care work is not recognized and is mainly carried out by women. 
We demand recognition and redistribution of reproductive work. 
The women of Ecuador deserve, demand and we want a state, which really guarantees our rights to a life-free life, which does not hide its innoperation, neither corruption and that prioritizes the lives of women. 
The women of Ecuador want to be free to decide whether to be mothers or not, free to build our project of life, and a healthy, pleasant sexuality, without violence, free of stereotypes. 
Where abortion is free and safe, and sexual and reproductive health a human right of all, with access to guaranteed education and health, without prejudice, or violence. 
In Ecuador, there are women criminalized, in prisons and with judgments by the State for the defense of their lands and territories. 
We, we defend the nature and reject miner, tanker extractivism that strips from their lands and territories to women, putting their lives and their community at risk. 
In Ecuador, our right to decide is penalized. 
Women are judicialized for aborting, even incarcerated, so we demand social and legal miscarme of abortion. 
The women of Ecuador stop, on the street, in the square, in the house because we want to be free and not brave, because we get tired of silent. 
If you touch one we organize all. 
The indigenous and peasant movement of Cotopaxi-MICC through a bulletin rated that during this government there is "serious setbacks in public policies in favor of women". 
In addition, it questions that the criminal comprehensive organic code (COIP) "does not typify feminicide but criminalizes the autonomous decision of its bodies (from women)". 
Complete Bulletin in MICC calls for women's international unemployment for the International Women's Day. 
More details at:  Women Conaie.  We love each other    . 
