The indigenous and peasant movement of Cotopaxi, MICC, ratifies its social force in the mobilization convened for this December 20, 2016 with the participation of most of its base organizations. 
More than 5 thousand people participated in the activity that occurred in the city of Latacunga. 
The MICC was mobilized by the low price of milk, drought problem, bombing clouds by brocolerolers, community transport, community school closure, excessive collection in electric light spreadsheet, high interest rate of the financial system National (crisis in the payment of credits) and rejection of the FTA, as Leonidas Iza Salazar, president of MICC said. 
IZA was emphatic in rejecting militarization in the Nankints community, and he was responsible as the sole responsible for the "things that happens in the Amazon" to the Ecuadorian government. 
At the time of concentration, Leonidas indicated that the invitations were sent to those responsible for the different institutions involved in the case to attend the Plaza San Agustín and can give the exits. 
But, "they shone with their absence," he said. 
Jorge Herrera, president of CONAIE, said that the representatives of the institutions did not peek because "they do not have a face to do it." 
In addition, he assured that it is a policy of "irresponsibility" that crosses at the country level. 
He rejected the rejection of the existing militarization in Nankints, Morona Santiago, and the request for an international mediation for the exit existing conflict in Shuar territory by the presence of Chinese mining, EXSA. 
Carlos Pérez, holder of ECUARNARI, greeted the initiative of the indigenous movement of Cotopaxi and called for rejecting mining. 
Rosa Jérez, president of the indigenous movement of Tungurahua, called the Unity of the Sierra Centro and endorsed the initiative undertaken by the province of Cotopaxi. 
He affirmed that "if this is the case" will do the same in his province because the problems are similar. 
He urged following the path of Tayts and Mamas to consolidate the struggle at the level of the Sierra Centro, so he thanked Leonidas Iza for the decision. 
From the crowd they expressed messages of solidarity with the Shuar people. 
In the midst of the company of the Sun decided some resolutions to the absence of the representatives of the summoned entities. 
In later days, such resolutions will be made public. 
. 
