The Law of Rural Lands and Ancestral Territories is a Anti-Sepent Policy, which only benefits Agribusiness  We denounce the critical points to the second law report of rural land and ancestral territories  This Thursday, December 17, 2015, session No. 362 of the National Assembly for the second debate of rural land and ancestral territories has been summoned. 
Faced with the imminent approval of regulations, signatory organizations, we declare that in times of "citizen revolution", the draft land consolidates the alliance between the sectors of agroindustrial elites and the national state, since it is part of the modernization process Capitalist of conservative character promoted since 2008 by the country's Alliance Government, under the discourse of "Agrarian Revolution". 
The land bill adds to other regulatory bodies and public policies that tarnish the autonomy of peasant organizations, collective rights of peoples and nationalities and the right to food, as it does and the Water Resources Law, the Plan Seeds, the Ministerial Agreement No. 299 and its instructional for agricacy, the signing of the Commercial Agreement with the European Union, the draft organic law of incentives for public-private partnerships and foreign investment and permissiveness for income and use of Transgenic seeds and its possible treatment in the next package of constitutional amendments. 
The signatory organizations, we denounce that the bill of rural land and ancestral territories is part of the "agrarian paoterzo" of the current government, which leaves the unequal structure of the Ecuadorian field intact, because:  Part of the concept of the earth as a merchandise and not as a human right. 
It denies the current concentration of the Earth in a few hands, causation of poverty in the field, and instead, promotes land productivity as the only mechanism of overcoming poverty (maximizes the exploitation of soil). 
It leaves intact the conditions of inequality in access to land as part of its alliance with agroindustrial capital and agribusiness. 
It is demagogic because it announces the prohibition of the latifundium and the concentration of the Earth, but does not stipulate limits or clear and concrete mechanisms to deconcentrate land or limit the latifundio. 
Understand food sovereignty as a simple act of food production from family farmers, ignoring the political meaning of the peasantry by struggling historically by land and territory. 
Incentive a land market that the State can not control, and on which it is only limited to administering, bureaucking and generating a policy clientele policy. 
It promotes control and discipline of the peasant sector through the land market, the credit for the purchase of land and productive projects. 
The land distribution formula that proposes this bill is the purchase and sale of properties at market prices, which makes it impossible to access the land of small peasants. 
The proposal for agricultural development has the vision of the State of Capital and the agro-industrial sectors, and does not admit the participation of peasant organizations. 
It excludes the peasantry as a significant subject of the economic, social and political dynamics of national agriculture, and presents it as a backward and impoverished subject that must be intervened by the State and modernized by capital. 
The national agricultural authority is constituted in the Single Earth Authority by not generating effective mechanisms for decision-making participation. 
Burocratica rural development, leaving in the hands of agricultural technology the development of plans and projects, generation of information and criteria to measure productivity. 
It promotes the harvest of agro and allows the advance of agroindustry and agribusiness over the lands of small and medium peasants. 
It opens the doors to foreign investment in the field promoting higher levels of inequality. 
It ends with the possibilities of a comprehensive agrarian reform proposed by the social, peasants, towns and nationalities. 
Restrict the principle of plurinationality to a simple cultural recognition and leave aside the territorial political nature, without generating any mechanism for the reconstitution of the ancestral territories. 
It does not create any institutional legal mechanism that drives the exercise of collective rights or defines the role of the State regarding them. 
In short, the bill of rural land and ancestral territories leaves the Community systems and privileges to the agro-industry as the main subject of the agrarian economy. 
Finally, we reprove the accomplice attitude of those peasant organizations that falling into the clienter policy of the current regime, have declared the land law project as "revolutionary", positioning it as a regulation that favors the impoverished sectors of the field and accepting it as payment of The agrarian debt. 
Against the conservative modernization of capitalism in the field!  Against the dispossession, the exclusion and exploitation of the peasants!  Rumbery to the Agrarian Summit!  Signatory Organizations:  Unique Federation of Affiliates Social Security Peasant Feunassc  Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador Conaie  Indigenous movement and Cotopaxi MICC peasant  Kitu Kara village  Assembly of South Peoples  National Agroecology Commission  Agroecological Network of Austro RaA  Land and life  Federation of Agricultural Centers and Peasant Organizations of the Litoral Fecool  Platform for health and life  . 
