Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, February 14, 2019  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador - CONAIE congratulates the actions of the National Electoral Council (CNE) with its President, Diana Atamaint, for managing the popular consultation, convened for March 24, 2019, on mining activity in the Kimsacocha area , Canton Girón, Azuay Province. 
Compliance with this electoral process shows that the CNE has reinstitucionalized to guarantee the democratic participation of citizenship, especially the communities for the defense of their territories. 
The popular consultation in Kimsacocha is the result of the permanent struggle of the Azuay communities together with the indigenous movement for the defense of water, the process was stagnated for 3 years even though the requirements for its call was fully fulfilled, the 24th of March will apply the right of peoples to be consulted by compulsory and constitutional compliance and not, by personal will. 
Likewise, we support the judicial ruling on Wednesday, February 13, in which the appeal presented by the Ministry of Energy and Non-Renewable Resources is denied along with the Mining Chamber in an attempt, anti-democratic, to revoke the call to popular consultation In Kimsakocha. 
This failure ratifies the realization of the popular consultation in March. 
La Conaie supports Diana Atamaint's management, President of the CNE, to respect and guarantee the rights enshrined in the Constitution, for the democratic participation of communities and peoples to be consulted on mining activity that affects its territories and puts at risk water sources. 
Additionally, CONAIE condemns the actions and statements of those who want to tarnish the electoral process sowing doubt and distrust in citizenship and demand more responsibility on the part of these actors, in order to promote the climate of national trust that this Complejo Electoral Process Requires. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
