Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, August 23, 2016  The presidents of: the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conaie, Jorge Herrera; Vicente Tsakimp, of the Shuar Arutam people; Agustín Wachapá, Interprovincial Federation of the Shuar Center; The syndicum of Nankints, Luis Tiwiram made public denunciation on violation of human rights and collective rights that the Ecuadorian government exercises against indigenous peoples and nationalities invading ancestral territories. 
By press conference, in the morning hours, they announced and denounced about the evictions that occurred on August 11 in the Shuar Nankint community, which was given in the context of the implementation of the large-scale mining project in the mountain range of the condor 
Jorge Herrera, president of the CONAIE, said that there is a systematic violation of the rights of indigenous peoples. 
Calls on the representatives of these companies that withdraw from the indigenous territories since constitutional processes such as free and informed prior consultation have been met. 
He noticed that any situation that happens in the area will be the responsibility of the Ecuadorian State. 
Agustín Wachapá, president of the FICSH, said that the president of Ecuadorians must do what the Constitution says, "Respect our collective rights". 
He also pointed out that they will not give a foot back and that they are ready to recover their territories "even if we have to give our lives." 
Luis Tiwiram, a syndic of the Nankints community, said they gave him 5 minutes to take out his things. 
He stressed that they were in the open, their homes and crops were destroyed. 
He indicated that at the moment they are located in the Panantza Parish. 
Vicente Tsakimp, president of the Shuar Arutam people, said: "This mining project will expand throughout the territory of the Cordillera del Cóndor and there is concern that it is still evicing all Shuar people who live there. 
We are not the invaders, we live in our ancestral territories. 
Mario Melo, human rights defender, expressed that as human rights defenders "we will accompany and defend the populations affected in compliance with the rule of law and using the mechanisms established in the Constitution and in the international instances of human rights protection" , He made an invitation to the Ecuadorian state "seeking a peaceful solution and respect for collective rights. 
"  The spokespersons pointed out that they will send documents at the instances such as the Chinese Embassy to respect the ancestral territories and stop invading. 
In addition, tomorrow, Wednesday, August 24, will keep a meeting with Diego Zorrilla, UN, at 9:00 a.m. to deliver documentations and testimonies about eviction. 
Conaie communication  PDF Bulletin  . 
