The Amazonian Comuna Youth Organization, the Independent Producer Bicycle and the Parliament of the Pencils of Pastaza present the Indomable Amazon Urban Cultures Festival: Singing of the Free People, Artistic Event that constitutes a sample of popular social organization without censorship to free and independent thinking Through cultural expressions that claim the voice of the peoples. 
Next May 7 at the Bayeku Malecón Boayaku of the Puyo River, Province of Pastaza, artists of musical groupings, theatrical, dancers, painters along with leaders of popular organizations of several corners of the country raise a cry for the freedom of indigenous uprising processes and National Paro 2015, demanding justice for our colleagues. 
Genres Musical artists Rock, Hip Hop, Reggae, Rap, Metal, Funk, Amazonian Kichwa are part of a billboard that includes theater artists, dance and live painting, nuanced with the special participation of base representatives, leaders and leaders of indigenous social organizations and workers committed to the fight for the defense of the Amazon. 
With an Ecological Agro Fair, open house and photographic exhibition, organizers and participants will announce their proposals and alternatives against the model of extraction of natural resources in the Amazonian South Center as well as its approaches, vindicating the principle of solidarity with our brothers and sisters Well, fight is not a crime. 
The event is framed within the Campaign #ResistasMedrecho that is led to the national level against the unjust criminalization of social protest in our country. 
Support your solidary message this Saturday, May 7 on an appointment for children, young people and adults, without age limit. 
More information at www. 
Amazoniamable. 
Blogspot. 
With, www. 
Resistrestrecho. 
org and in our official channels  Amazoniaindomable  The Bicycle - Independent Producer  CommunicationConfeniae.  #ResistasMidrecho.  Twitter: @ ConfeniaE1 / @Restendrecho  Source: Communication Conféniae  . 
