Ecuador's indigenous movement delegation participates in Geneva EPU. 
Representatives of the Movement continue in the defense of human rights of indigenous peoples and nationalities of Ecuador. 
They participate in the United Nations Headquarters in Geneva of the Pre-Sessions that are developed within the framework of the Universal Periodic Review (EPU) that UN will carry out the Ecuadorian State this Thursday, April 6, 2017. 
The Ecuadorian delegation maintains meetings with permanent delegates from Switzerland and Italy to the UN with the eagerness to channel the recommendations that will be made to the Ecuadorian State. 
This gave Wilson Ordóñez, Conaie's lawyer, through the social network Facebook. 
One of the central demands is to say no to the criminalization of social protest in Ecuador. 
According to a recently presented report, it indicates that there is more 700 criminalized in the country by protesting. 
The demand for indigenous movement spokesmen is asking amnesty and pardon for those who were "unfairly sentenced, persecuted and criminalized". 
The Delegation is made up of Jorge Herrera, president of CONAIE; Abilio Shakai, president, and Raúl Petsain of the Shuar Arutam people; Andrés Tapia, Conféniae communication leader; Wilson Ordóñez, Conaie's lawyer; Patricia, Leadersa Waorani; And many more representatives. 
A Cotinuation shared note taken from Servindi  Ecuador: they will request in the UN that the Social Protest is not criminalized  On Thursday, April 6, human rights organizations submitted reports on the situation of respect, protection and exercise of several human rights in Ecuador and will ask that social protest be criminalized. 
It is a pre-session of civil society that will be anterior for the Universal Periodic Review (EPU) that will carry out the United Nations Human Rights Council, in Geneva, Switzerland, where the Ecuadorian State will be evaluated in the fulfillment of rights humans. 
The participating organizations are subsidiaries of the International Federation of Human Rights (FIDH) as an ecological action, Ecumenical Human Rights Commission (CEDhu) and the Regional Foundation of Human Rights Advisory (INREDH). 
Elsie Monge, Executive Director of CEDHU and Vice President of FIDH for Latin America, will expose before the diplomatics of more than 47 countries, issues such as the problem of femicide and violence against girls and women; The involuntary disappearance of people and serious violations of human rights. 
Likewise, the criminalization of social protest; the situation of human rights defenders; and violations of the right to freedom of association. 
In addition, the three organizations will maintain lobbying meetings with the States Parties of the United Nations Human Rights for the Universal Periodic Review that will be held this May 1. 
The EPU.  The universal periodic review process occurs every four years and is the opportunity to assess the progress and setbacks on human rights in the country. 
Upon doors to start a new government in Ecuador, the recommendations you receive will be a fundamental input on your public policy agenda. 
According to the promotional organizations of the session, participation is of the utmost importance in the context of social conflict, acute by the election results on April 2 in Ecuador. 
In this regard, signatory organizations expect that in the framework of this review the guarantees of non-criminalization of social protest and the generation of an environment conducive to the defense and enforceability of rights are respected in the country. 
They reiterate that all people should be protected and not persecuted, harassed or criminalized by defending their national and international level rights, and are ratified in their work and commitment for the defense of human rights and nature, regardless of those who occupy the charges of Popular Election. 
. 
