A delegation of organizations of the indigenous movement of Ecuador denounced today, Thursday, April 6, 2017, the criminalization of the struggle and social protest that exists in the country. 
This within the framework of the Universal-EPU period conducted in the United Nations, Switzerland, according to Plags in the statement issued by Conféniae. 
In addition, Jorge Herrera, president of CONAIE, together with Delegates of the Shuar Arutam-PSHA, Women's Association Waorarani-Amwae and Conféniae formed a work team that overweigh the UN on the UN of the need for Member States to review Ecuador's policy at high problems that occur in the country: persecution and judicialization to social fighters, violation of the right to prior consultation, violation of freedom of association, among other human rights affected, according to the brief of the Amazon Organization. 
In the previous examination (2012) the UN delivered the Ecuadorian State 5 recommendations on rights that were being violated in terms of criminalization, but none of this has been fulfilled, they say. 
But, on the contrary, 98 people were prosecuted in August 2015 after uprising and national unemployment that took place in Ecuador. 
The document is highlighted that so far existing 29 sentenced to prison for 3 months to 4 years, and add that "a new wave of judicialized is presented between 2016 and 2017 with dozens of Amazonian leaders persecuted after the state of exception in Morona Santiago." 
This in reference to the conflict generated in the area by the EXSA mining presence in Nankints. 
The delegation presented to all the member countries of the UN its position and approach on criminalization. 
His postulates caused sympathy to the states that participate in the EPU. 
These countries will raise a report with the following recommendations to Ecuador, affirm the letter. 
The recommendations will be:  End of the criminalization policy with amnesty and pardon for social fighters. 
Endlessly leave Decree 739 and 691 (former Decree 016) and application of the right to freedom of association. 
Derogatory Decree 1247 and not expanding the mining and oil border; as well as, application of the right to prior consultation, free and informed binding. 
Finally, they narrate in the section that "several international missions of diplomats countries such as: Germany, Norway, Switzerland, Italy, South Korea, Côte d'Ivoire, Bolivia, Sahara Region, European Union, Equipment of the United Nations High Commissioner and Ecuador himself with whom the delegation maintained work and incidence sessions. 
For this reason, they mention, they manifested their willingness to make the proposals presented with the "only objective of guaranteeing the application of human rights for peoples, nationalities and indigenous and social organizations in Ecuador." 
Source: Communication Conféniae  . 
