The dawn of this Saturday, December 17, 2016, several inhabitants of the Panantza Parish, in the province of Morona Santiago, were captured by police and military camped in San Juan Bosco and Panantza, in circumstances outside any cause for which it was dictated the state of exception; Well, they were captured while they slept use and others developed their daily activities in the field: livestock. 
From about 7:00 pm, three armored mountain tanks have entered by San Carlos to advance to the SunSwint and Others centers, while military helicopters are hanging off the Shuar Warints, three trucks of the Ecuadorian militia have reached the Shuar Center of El Tink . 
"I fear that they intend to attack every Shuar Center that they find," commented one of the inhabitants of the area. 
This to look for more people to capture them. 
Today, at eleven o'clock in the morning, the military incursion in San Carlos began. 
The military and policemen base their search on the list they obtained when two SHUAR employees of the mining randomly provided 41 Shuar Indigenous Names and arbitrarily responsible for the Acts of November 21 when members of Shuar Nationality took the mining camp in Nankints , place where the community was evicted on August 11 to give way to the works of the EXSA mining. 
As of 11h00, Inredh has begun to receive desperate calls from settlers in the area. 
"They want to exterminate ourselves," they manifest some. 
"We fear for the lives of our relatives and colleagues" say others who call on the phone. 
Classes in the Schools of Panantza and Gualaquiza are paralyzed, because the military does not give way or for the entrance, nor for the exit. 
"We do not have to eat," say some shuar inhabitants. 
"There has never been so much zozobra, but since when the military entered, they are rude, disrespectful and violent," the inhabitants of Panantza are impotent. 
The Shuar also manifest their indignation because they were the ones who defended the Cordillera of El Cóndor during the war with the neighboring country of Peru, and now they are evicted to give way to a Chinese mining. 
As will be remembered, the prior investigation process No. 
140801816110006, by the events that occurred in November began with a police part and written denunciation presented by the Minister of the Interior, Diego Torres; They were called to declare 41 people from the communities of Panantza, San Carlos, Tsuintsuim, San Pedro, San Juan Bosco and Nankints. 
This list includes all the members of the Parish Board of San Carlos, the President and Vice President of the Parish Board of Panantza, the main leaders of the Shuar Federation of Morona Santiago and leaders of the main Shuar centers in the area, as well as the coordinator of the Pachakutik movement of San Juan Bosco. 
It is known that the two Shuar workers of the company were echoed to declare against Luis Tiwiram and José Esach, leaders of the Top. 
The accusation also refers to a press conference that Dó Tiwiram, who, allegedly declared the author of these events and would have warned that they will fight until the last consequences. 
The military and police have decided that Tiwiran and ESACH are responsible for the events of last December 14 and have assured that they will not rest until they find them, for what they have deployed in the Region Military Equipment and have initiated the raid in San Carlos. 
Until the middle of today, which we disseminate the present information, it is known about the detention of Milton Reinoso, vice president of the Panantza Parochial Board; Mercedes Cabrera, Nancy Marín and Danny Marín, president of the parish board of Panantza, who surprised them sleeping, from their bedrooms, have been dragged, have entered destroying the doors of the houses, with tomb doors, hitting children and women who They wanted to avoid detention. 
The detainees have been taken to the Community Police Unit of San Juan Bosco, and now they are driving them to Gualaquiza. 
They prepare an audience for the afternoon. 
The whereabouts of the other detainees are unknown and the consequences of the military incursion in San Carlos are unknown. 
Several inhabitants of Panantza and San Juan Bosco, in coordination with the Local Legal team of Inredh, have moved to various places in search of detainees but have not had results; In the Office of Gualaquiza, they have stated that they do not know anything about the particular nor are they accompanying military operations. 
As it had already been warned in an earlier note of Inredh, the Government was committed to starting a witch hunt and in this hunt of is stopping indistinctly to people in the area where the EXSA mining will implement its project. 
Inredh equipment  . 
