EFE / Paris agency  The French region of Le-de-France, in which Paris is located, signed today, Wednesday, July 22, an agreement with that of Sarayaku, located in the heart of the Ecuadorian Amazon jungle, which is based on the compensation of the Carbon emissions and seeks to paralyze oil holdings in this area. 
It is the first cooperation project between both regions, based on a coordinated policy to fight climate change. 
The French region is committed to conducting a study to quantify the amount of oxygen that Sarayaku provides to the planet and the harmful carbon it receives, by virtue of which, after competent international certification, will be given the option of entering the market of The "carbon credits". 
This system is an economic mechanism proposed in the Kyoto Protocol consisting of the exchange of emission permits between developed and other developing countries to reduce polluting gas emissions that contribute to global warming. 
The agreement reached today in Paris is part of the United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP21), which will be held in the French capital between the next 30 November and December 11. 
"The indigenous territories have always been threatened by economic interests (...) and this proposal can allow avoiding oil extraction in our territories," which exhausts its resources, declared after its heading with French representatives Félix Santi, governor of Sarayaku. 
Santi stressed that this project, from which the expected date of completion was not facilitated, does not favor only its people but it transcends the rest of humanity, due to the potential devastating effect for the planet that would imply the disappearance of that indigenous area. 
Sarayaku's activists intend to raise awareness among the importance of the maintenance of natural resources and participate in COP21, together other indigenous peoples, with the intention that their voice is heard. 
The one in charge of international relations of Sarayaku, Patricia Gualinga, explained before the press that his idea of biodiversity "is connected to conservation, spirituality and human being" and advanced that they will displace a canoe to the summit, which is a symbol of his People and that "will take the Amazon Energy to the Seine." 
Photo: Conaie Communication / Sarayaku 01 October 2014  . 
