Faced with the health emergency situation that Ecuador lives by the arrival of Covid-19, groups, journalists and communication workers we have autoconvocked ourselves to point out urgent needs that guarantee the exercise of our profession. 
Mainly, we demand that the national government committed to preserving health and life, respecting human rights and guaranteeing journalistic exercise as part of its democratic obligations, in accordance with Article 18 of the 2008 Constitution and the Organic Law of Transparency and Access to public information (Lotaip). 
Almost a month after the quarantine has been decreed in the country, we expressed our concern against facts and measures taken by the Government that violate the right to access information and the transparency thereof. 
We argue on the growing number of journalists and media workers who have died as a result of contagion in the exercise of their functions and that until April 12 they added, at least nine. 
In addition, 16 contagions and 18 people in isolation have been identified. 
These figures represent a subregister, precisely because of the difficulty of performing tests and limitations to access accurate data. 
In a health crisis, as they face Ecuador and the world, the possibility of guaranteeing access to useful, timely, accurate, documented and transparent information can prevent the deepening chaos generated by rumors and false data, especially in social networks; In addition, it can help avoid contagions and save lives. 
However, as a review of an open letter signed by several Ecuadorian journalists, since social isolation measures were implemented and the mechanism of the so-called virtual press wheels was established, that possibility has been limited. 
As a sign of this, reporters have been collected that have difficulties in open spaces by the authorities to deliver information and see their possibilities of reburating to ensure that their audience receive complete and timely information. 
Those who exercise journalism have to send the questions prior to press chats coordinated by the General Secretariat of Communication of the Presidency (Segcom), but we do not know the filters to select them. 
This is added the lack of response to orders made to public institutions and local authorities that serve the crisis, when it is its obligation to communicate transparently and deliver the requested data. 
We want to notice the lack of a strategy for the information to be accessible to the audience of indigenous peoples and nationalities, as well as for people with hearing disabilities. 
This does not know the right to intercultural and inclusive communication recognized by the Constitution. 
Instead, we see with concern how you have tried to mark guidelines and influence the coverage of the media, which in the future could be configured in prior censorship. 
We emphasize that the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) and the representative for the freedom of the media of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Harlem Désir, establish that governments must guarantee truthful information about Coronavirus. 
According to the statement, journalism is crucial as it informs the public and monitors government actions. 
Additionally, in a survey on working conditions of journalists covering the emergency, driven from civil society, the importance of the Ministry of Labor requires companies related to the scope of journalism and communication to create specific protocols for management From the emergency, the distribution of biosafety implements, access to comprehensive health - physical and psychological-, and respect for labor shifts, of all employees, including drivers and cleaning staff. 
For the exposed:  1. 
We express our condolences to the relatives of the communication workers who have died at this juncture and demand that the authorities provide the necessary means to ensure a worthy rest. 
Likewise, we sympathize with the colleagues who are waiting for taking a test or a diagnosis and we make a call for the relevant authorities and the media to which they belong to their cases. 
2. 
We demand that the Interinstitutional Committee for the Protection of Journalists and Communication Workers, created in April 2019, is responsible for addressing these needs. 
Among those that are the access to COVID-19 test and comprehensive health services, protection of labor rights, reformulation of virtual press wheels so that access is guaranteed without any discrimination against accurate and timely data. 
3. 
Although, in statements of April 10, 2020, the Government Minister, María Paula Romo, has offered a restructuring of the press conferences, it is essential that these respect the principle of plurality and diversity for all journalists, no matter The medium to which they belong can participate in them. 
We demand that the new mechanism be transparent, which is made known in a timely manner and that it contains the commitment of the authorities to answer the concerns of journalists. 
4. 
Access to unofficial sources: as multiple freedom organizations of expression in the region and the country have expressed, it is essential to bear in mind that free journalistic exercise includes the contrast of information with unofficial sources to strengthen the public debate. 
In this case, the medical staff that serves the first-hand emergency and patients are indispensable sources for the press. 
It is imperative that the hospital authorities refrain from promoting restrictive measures that hinder the press dialogue with this type of source. 
The following organizations, guilds, powers of communication and media together adhere to this manifestum and sign together:  . 
