D. 
M. 
, Quito, May 7, 2020  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie expresses its support for Ecuadorian youth and the student movement that they see their rights to a dignified and quality education with the illegal and unconstitutional reduction of 10% to the budget of 32 institutions of higher education. 
The recent measures announced by the Government of Lenín Moreno, its cabinet and authorities, as well as the prioritization of the payment of the debt with the IMF, show that education, health and employment are not priority sectors in this health crisis, for this Government are more non-rights expenses. 
The trimming of the college budget borders USD 98 '210 190 affecting more than 30 entities of public higher education. 
This cut is arbitrary, illegal and unconstitutional, as art. 
165, N. 
º 2 of the Constitution, establishes that: "Declared the State of Exception, the President or President of the Republic may use public funds for other purposes, except for those corresponding to health and education." 
In this sense, we express our support for the actions of the educational strike from the organized student movement, teachers, and education workers for the defense of their rights and historical conquests; We support rejection actions against budget cut. 
Committed to the defense of collective rights, we join the mobilization in defense of the public university, considering that young people of peoples, indigenous nationalities, peasants are formed in the country's higher education centers. and the city; Those who, with this attack on public education would be affected in their projection continue with higher education and formed with quality and dignity. 
Likewise, we denounce that the situation of education in the rural sectors is extremely worrisome, for which the conjuncture that now faces superior public education is not alien with the reality of public, intercultural and community education, in such a way that we It leads to demand with emphasis on demand from the Community Public University, Amawtay Wasi. 
Economic measures should not be taught with public education as a provision to face the current economic crisis, since the Government of Moreno reduced public education: 2018: USD 83 million; 2019: USD 90 million; 2020: USD 98 million, however, in 2019, he condoned debts for more than USD 4500 million dollars to business and financial groups who in this crisis do not provide with real solidarity funds. 
Faced with all these irregularities in the public higher education sector, we support the call to political judgment to Richard Martínez, Minister of Economy and Finance, who must explain to the country how this cut was made that seriously affects the rights of teachers, students, workers And puts the education sector at a very high vulnerability condition in the midst of critical moments that we live in the context of the pandemic. 
We hope that the National Assembly is consistent in its action thinking about the population and well-being of the country before this fact that has moved all Ecuadorians and Ecuadorians. 
For all this, social isolation measures can not serve as a pretext to impose reforms against the rights of the Ecuadorian people, we remain an alert to defend our indigenous peoples, working class and peasants, Ecuadorian public education, For the free income of young people and quality education. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
