COMPANIER HUGS AND COMPANIONS, receive an attentive and fraternal greeting in the name of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE). 
We write to them to share our concern before the illegal and disproportionate sentence to 4 years in prison with two of our base colleagues of the Saraguro people, accused by the Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice of Public Service Parability. 
Luisa Lozano is 39 years old. 
Defender of the right to land, water and a dignified life for indigenous peoples and nationalities. 
It is a native of the Lagunas community, where on August 17, 2015, the police and military entered with tear pumps and tolets to restore the "order". 
Luisa remembers that August 17 crossed through the community when she saw that a pregnant woman was hit by state agents. 
He approached helping her and was arrested. 
Friendly Angamar, popular radio communicator Good Shepherd. 
APPEDATED IN JOURNAL EXERCISE. 
On August 17 he witnessed the mistreatment of the communals of Saraguro. 
On May 30, 2016, the two were sentenced to 4 years in prison. 
The maximum penalty according to the Ecuadorian Criminal Comprehensive Code is 3 years in prison; In this case, they are considered aggravated and the maximum sanction is imposed plus the third of the penalty. 
The demands of the Saraguro people to participate peacefully from the indigenous survey (from which they were fruitful and subsequently prosecuted), consisted of the non-granting of their ancestral territories for the mining industry. 
They also requested that their bilingual intercultural education be respected because they consider it fundamental for its historical continuity as an indigenous people; They requested that their dairy production system be strengthened and that it does not transform its form of production into a business agriculture. 
We summoned the national and international community to solve and pronounce itself personally or institutionally on this unfortunate fact that receded decades acquired from indigenous peoples in human rights. 
Defending human rights is an internationally annealed right by the Inter-American System of Human Rights. 
Ecuador has ratified all agreements and treaties on the subject. 
The mobilization and social protest is criminalized in Ecuador and the noble work of the people who dream of another world better, which in some cases as is of indigenous peoples, already live it. 
From Conaie we are promoting a campaign for all criminalized from indigenous lifting and national workers' unemployment amounting to 122 throughout the country. 
They can be informed more about it on the www page. 
Resistrestrecho. 
Org.  Social pressure in different parts of the world generates pressure waves supporting in the mobilizations of peoples, that is why we see their vital voice for the Saraguro People's struggle. 
Mention you that the criminal process still continues and that there is a possibility that sentences twelve more partners. 
We ask you to send your solidarity cards to this communication email @ conaie. 
Org and that of the campaign resistance atrecho @ gmail. 
com; Subsequently with your consent we will make use of the same in the different communication platforms that handles the communication team of the campaign. 
All suggestions and contributions to this and other initiatives will be received with gratitude. 
We propose to unify campaign in networks with the following hashtags: #solidaridadaridasaguro #saraburolibre #resistasMirerecho  Sincerely  By the Governing Council  Conaie.  PDF Document: Here  . 
