Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, March 8, 2016  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, greets all women fighting from the field and the city. 
Our recognition to all women, who daily contribute to the construction of a different society, of a different culture, of a different economic system and that this March 8 serves to take strength and advocate collectively by permanent transformation. 
In memory of all women in the world who fought against capitalism, the patriarchy system, colonialism, racism and in particular the indigenous women of our continent and Ecuador, who have sustained life in the struggle, for the defense of Our territories, against the unbound and relentless transnationals for exploiting our spaces of life; Advocates for human rights, nature, of life in full. 
We say that the challenge to make deep transformations of the inhuman capitalist - patriarchal system, does not lie in the simple that women are taken into account within bureaucratic spaces or public positions of the States, but we must promote joint efforts between men and women, youth , adults, older elders, to build a true anti-patriarchal, anti-capitalist system, based on the principles of life: reciprocity, complementarity, duality, integrality, relationality, circularity, founding bases of the Sumak Kawsay - Life in fullness, which by these legacies They fought our tits and breasts to pragmatize within a plurinational state and an intercultural society. 
In the national states of the world and in ours, there are high levels of feminicide, hate, feminized racism. 
We remember the recent murder of a brave companion in Honduras, who for fighting against the interest of the transnationals paid with his life. 
For them and many more, on this day, our commitment to keep fighting for the long-awaited sleep of the great majorities, so we remembered deeply the teachings of our old fighters and we will not go down to build a society without classes, without discrimination, without Racism, anti-patriarchal, anti-capitalist, these structures We will change with the joint struggle man-woman, child-adult-human-nature, with the feeling and collective thinking. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.  Bulletin in PDF: Here  . 
