National organizations of workers, peoples, nationalities, of the popular, social and peasant sectors grouped in the national unitary collective as they are: the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador - CONAIE, the Unitary Front of Workers - Fut and the Popular Front - FP; We condemn the new threat of North American president, Donald Trump, against Venezuela and the people of her. 
The US government with repeated complaints that constitute distracting actions against the irresponsible management of the health crisis provoked by the COVID-19 pandemic and measures aimed at sustaining the electoral expectations for re-election as happened at the beginning of the year with Iran, Donald Trump deploys his war machine in "military maneuvers" in the Caribbean with 30. 
000 soldiers, 30 vessels and 250 aircraft and huge carriers, even violating the request of a high fire to all the conflicts that are in the world carried out by the Secretary General of the United Nations on March 23, because of all approaching all Efforts to contain the pandemic. 
If these "maneuvers" are added the threats made on days after the people of Venezuela, in similar senses it attacks Colombia at the pretext of combating drug trafficking in the territory where the brothers of the original peoples, workers and organized people inhabit , it shows the intention of a possible war intervention against Venezuela and its people putting at risk the peace and security of that country, the region and of America. 
Donald Trump showing the imperialist arrogance, putting his geopolitical and economic interests, over the sanitary tragedy facing humanity and his own people, undressing his rapacious and inhuman nature, aims to ensure the absolute control of the region, starting his Machinery of war, intervention and death. 
For Conaie, Fut and Popular Front, are the workers and people of Venezuela, and on the basis of the principle of self-determination of peoples and nations, calls to solve the problems they face without intervention of any foreign force or power . 
We urge the agencies of international law: UN, OAS, IACHR, among others, to condemn and stop all attempt for war in the region, attached to the fundamental principles by which these agencies were born, as is respect for the sovereignty of Nations, world peace and human rights, for which, therefore, can not be simple observers subordinated to the interests of global imperialism and in the case of the OAS can not remain an accomplice of US interests in the region. 
In the same way we urge the peoples of Latin America and the world to convince this new US government attempt of invasion and aggression against a people by their geopolitical interests, in this case, their eagerness to control oil, whose Venezuelan reserves are the largest in the world. 
We can not be accomplices of a genocide for energy interests from corporations that dominate the US government. 
Those who integrated the national unit collective, which brings together Conaie, Fut and Popular Front, condemn the threats and irresponsible pretensions of occupation of the Venezuelan territory intended by the US military power; Pen for the aggressive and irrational attitude that puts at risk the peace and life of the people of Venezuela and those that we express our unconditional solidarity. 
Organizations of workers, indigenous, peasants, students, women, retail merchants and autonomous workers organized in the Popular Conaie, Fut and Front, grouped into the national unit collective, we call the unity of originating peoples and workers in Latin America and the world to stop the warfare escalation of North American imperialism, reiterating that the fundamental principle of coexistence among nations is the self-determination of peoples and non-interference in the internal affairs of the countries. 
April 5 2020   Sincerely;   Jaime Vargas.  President Conaie.   Messiah tatamuez Moreno.  President Future   Nelson Erazo Hidalgo.  National President Front Popular   Document on PDF.  . 
