A pronouncement from Nankints, to public opinion, and a call to the international community of human rights and other international organizations to intervene in this mining conflict in our Shuar territory, today militarized with all the war material of Ecuadorian army. 
Nankints, December 18, 2016  Considering that:  That from day 21, when we decided to return to our invaded territories by ECSA China and the army; From day 22 to the present date we have been harshly attacked by air and land. 
On day 15, when the death of a policeman, the army attacked us with incendiary pumps, gases, gusts of rifles, burned 8 heads, burned houses, herbs and up to a part of the virgin jungle, this reality has not been said in the media. 
For this reason we want to ratify and maintain our firm and unwavering position, that we are a Warrior People of Peace and we have resorted to peaceful means; And we are not murderer, nor cowards; We at no time have used heavy or rifle weapon as they accuse us by the minister, the police and military, that bullet that killed the policeman, as that murder bullet says is from the same army, since the only ones who have that kind of weapon The military, such accusations we refuse categorically and ask the echo. 
Rafael thin strap of all violent acts that are generated in the Cordillera del Cóndor. 
On Saturday, 17, between 9 or 10 in the morning, they shot us for two long hours, from the armored cars, helicopters and from the war tanks, from the other side of the Zamora River in front of the San Carlos parish. 
More than 8000 military troops were present, from different fronts in San Juan Bosco, Lemon Indanza and GualAquiza. 
We want to unmask the Government of Rafael Correa, the minister, the army commanders and the policemen who say they say that they say that they are not using any kind of weapon of thick caliber in this operation in Shuar territory, the army in a violent manner, disrespecting our collective rights, has entered community territories, where children, women and the elderly have had to go into the forest to protect themselves from this military invasion, continuous attack product we have three fellow Shuar injured with raifunal bullet, one of gravity, without No medical care has a bullet at the height of the left omplate and a missing child. 
In addition, according to the confidential source of the same army tell us that they are being forced to shoot all the Shuar and until yesterday the army is looking for the seriously injured partner to kill him and other teammates and leaders of the historic Glorious Federation Shuar Fic. 
The army through the brutal attack has managed to enter as well as Nakints, Panza, San Carlos, Tsuntsuim, Bella Mar, where they have stopped a peasant and now aims to advance to Wuapis, Kutukus, Tiink, and others, all Shuar communities , these violent military incursion acts, abusive and attentor to life and human dignity and violation of human rights; We refuse categorically and demand the immediate withdrawal of the army of our territory. 
We also leave under knowledge that we do not take responsibility for the violent actions generated by the army and will defend ourselves from the attack and aggressions that the army makes and hold on the belt government. 
Six mestizo peasants of the Panantza parish has been captured by only the fact of having opposed the mining activity in his parish. 
Six Shuar citizens have been tested on the parish of San Carlos de Limón. 
Television and radio chains have been released from the Rafael Government of racist and defamatory character with respect to what happened on December 15, 2016  We want to communicate to the country the following:  Our position remains firm and unwavering. 
We defend now and always our territory of a mining invasion that will not only affect nankints, but all the territory of the Shuar Arutam people and the Shuar nation in general. 
It is hundreds and thousands of hectares that are within our territory and the mestizo brothers who have been assigned to foreign companies to develop mining projects that have not been socialized. 
Nor has the prior and informed free consultation that is a right that we have as originating peoples has not been. 
The Chinese company has purchased problems and we demand that it be removed from the Cordillera del Cóndor, Nankintza and Tundayme. 
Our position has been defensive. 
We have responded in legitimate defense against the Eviction of August this year and the attack of the growing militarization in our territory. 
It is absolutely false that we have previously ordered economic contributions to the mestizo and peasant population. 
Those who speak in this way are the Lame Dishes of the Chinese and salaried of the mining companies. 
We demand the freedom of the mestizo peasants of Panantza, as well as our Shuar brothers. 
They are innocent of the actions that for justice and in legitimate self-defense we have driven so far. 
We call on the Ecuadorians and Ecuadorians to defend the national territory, defend our mountains, our rivers and our waterfalls from the Cordillera del Cóndor. 
Our struggle is for our rights, but also for the future of the life of the Ecuadorians, of our Brothers Wampis Awajun, of the Peruvians, of the Brazilians, of Latin America and of all humanity. 
We call all Ecuadorians and the International Human Rights Community, United Nations, and others, to intercede by our abrooted rights. 
We want to return to our communities. 
Live in peace and harmony. 
Nankints in resistance, from the Cordillera del Cóndor, south of Morona Santiago  The glorious Shuar nation, a town of Sacred Waterfalls !!!!  . 
