The Legislative Administration Council called the Organic Reform Law on the Organic Communication Law presented by the Community sector through Elio Peña, Assemblyman of Zamora Chinchipe by Pachakutik, in the middle of June. 
Once admitted it will be sent to the Commission on Collective Rights, an instance in which the reform of the regulations is treated. 
This communication sector is constituted by various representations such as that of the indigenous movement-Conaie, Academy, communication spaces, collectives and others. 
The direct award of frequencies for community media of indigenous peoples and nationalities, as well as for more representative organizations such as Conaie and its regional: ECUARUNARI, CONAICE and CONFENIAE is one of the proposals that the project contemplates. 
In addition, they propose that the definition of community media should be improved. 
As well as for the conformation of CORDICOM, there must be the participation of civil society organizations with gender and intergenerational equity. 
Another of the approaches is that there must be a space that makes it possible to comply with the law, not to issue economic sanctions. 
Therefore, they see the creation of the public offense that would be the instance that enables the rights of hearings to an information without discriminatory content, symbolic violence or who undermines the integrity of vulnerable groups. 
Its conformation will be a citizen. 
The Ombud's Office may guarantee the rights of individuals or groups that are affected by some content in the media; Its character will not be sanctioning or punitive, but will dictate administrative measures of a reparative nature. 
In the area of sustainability, they propose to strengthen the measures of affirmative actions by creating a fund to promote community media that promote their creation, training, the production of community and intercultural products and their sustainability. 
This topic consider that 20% of state advertising should be destined for this sector. 
Reform Project: Here  Sign:  Latin American Association of Folk Education and Communication, Alevance  International News Agency for Peace and Non-Violence, Pressenza  Catholic Communication Association, Signis Ecuador  Latin American Information Association, Alai  Teacher Association - Social Communication Faculty, Central University of Ecuador, Facso. 
Association of Audiovisual Producers Kichwas de Otavalo - Apak  CIESPAL.  Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie  Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuador Amazon, Confédae  Community, popular and educational media coordinator of Ecuador, Corape  ECUARUNARI.  The churo communication  Passionate and passionate radialists  Digital Lancers  Communication coalition and community media  Youth Center of Emeralds, CJE  Radio La Calle Speech - Emeralds  Countercurrent juvenile movement  Minga Social Communication  Radio Jatari Kichwa - Acia 92. 
3 FM - Pastaza  Radio Kimsakocha - Azuay  Radio protects its 90. 
7 FM - Imbabura  Be Public Communication Agency, Citizen Observatory of Public Services  Wambra Radio - Quito  Association of Audiovisual Producers of Sucumbíos Nationalities and Peoples Ecuador, ApanaPse  . 
