The protection action presented days ago by ECURUNARI, regarding the mining activities developed by Junefield / EcuadorGoldmin South America SA, which affects the Río Blanco community, in the Páramos del Boxes (Basin), finally had favorable court in court of Justice of Azuay. 
After the incidents raised on May 8 of the current year, where the people of Molleturo - Rio Blanco decided to take measures in the face of Junefield's mining operations / EcuadorGoldmin South America S A. 
, which I disengage with the repression of comuneros and commuters, the militarization of the area and subsequently the paralysis of activities of the multinational by almost 25 days. 
These events are the precedent, so the ECUARUNARI headed by Yaku Pérez presented an action of protection in the Court of Justice of the Azuay, a hearing that was summoned for June 01 of this year, at 5:00 p.m., and the massively accompanied by comuneros and comunas who fight for water and pollution-free territories, to this the support of the mayor of the municipality of Cuenca and stage authorities were added. 
After 4 hours the audience lasted, finally the Court of Justice of the Azuay granted a fault favorable to the appeal presented by ECUARUNARI, in which it also orders the final suspension of mining activities and the immediate demilitarization of the area, notes that for it the Ombudsman's advocacy must monitor his fulfillment. 
After the favorable resolution, and in the midst of the Algarabía of the Indigenous Communities of Azuay, the President of ECUARUNARI, Regional de la Conaie, Yaku Pérez said "There is a giant respite, there is hope and the dream of peoples begin to wake up from This long nightmare. 
16 years of struggle was worth it "also thanked the haughty people of Molleturo and Kimsacocha who have not lowered the guard in the anti-mini fight. 
The Rio Blanco project is one of the 5 large-scale mining projects promoted by the Government of Rafael Correa and considered as "great importance" by the current government, it is developed in communities and territories of indigenous peoples and nationalities, in areas Highly sensitive by your biodiversity and in water recharge areas:  The Mirador project for the exploitation of copper and the North Fruit Auriferous Project located at the Cordillera del Cóndor Provincia de Zamora Chinchipe, directly affects sensitive ecosystems of the Ecuadorian Amazon. 
The Río Blanco Projects for the Extraction of Gold and Silver and the Loma Loma project for the exploitation of gold, silver and copper are located in the province of Azuay, in the Andean páramo considered water recharge areas. 
Finally on Project San Carlos Panantza that explodes copper, gold and molybdenum located in the province of Morona Santiago and Shuar Territory. 
Recall that the San Carlos Panantza project and the Mirador project have already caused forced displacements that have violated the human rights and rights of indigenous peoples. 
Conaie communication  . 
