Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, April 4, 2016  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE), the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon (Confedery) / Terramater, the Human Rights Center of the Pontifical Catholic University of Ecuador (PUCE) and the Regional Foundation of Human Rights Advisory (Inredh) participated today, April 4, 2016, in the period 157 of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights with the thematic hearing [1] "Freedom of association of the indigenous peoples and nationalities of Ecuador". 
The theme hearing aimed at visible the current situation of the right to the Association of the Peoples and Indigenous Nationalities of the country that has been severely affected since 2015 when the National Government moved the competences of registration and legalization of the communities, peoples and indigenous nationalities to the Undersecretary of Peoples and Interculturality that belongs to the National Secretary of Policy Management. 
The Undersecretaría de Peoples and Interculturality legalizes and registers the authorities of the communities, peoples and indigenous nationalities at their convenience. 
Thus, if a community or authority is opposed to government policies, it is simply not legalized and registered by the Undersecretariat of Peoples and Interculturality of the Secretariat of Policy Management. 
With this actions, the indigenous directives that were chosen under the principles and norms of each people and nationality disrespeted the right to organize the peoples and nationalities are being ignored. 
In addition, the Government creates parallel organizations generating internal conflicts in the organization. 
These facts were exposed in the IACHR to demonstrate that the right to freedom of the Association of the Peoples and Nationalities of Ecuador has been violated. 
Freedom of association is a fundamental right that empowers people to "establish, by itself and together with other people, an entity with their own legal personality, whose object and lawful purpose is freely elected. 
"This right is contemplated in multiple international instruments such as: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the PIDCP and the American Convention on Human Rights. 
In this way, it is important to emphasize that freedom of association should allow people to associate for any reason, which may be based on political ideologies, religious beliefs, defense of interest, cultural purposes, among many others. 
The importance of the protection of this right must be contemplated to allow the Association to reach its own legal status that allows it to function according to the legal mandates contained in a certain national system. 
In addition, ILO Convention 169 guarantees specific rights to indigenous peoples and nationalities as the maintenance of their culture, their organization and their customs. 
However, in Ecuador this right has been violated. 
For example, on January 16, 2015 in Provincial Assembly of the Indigenous and Peasant Movement of Tungurahua (MIT), provincial organization made up of 4 peoples of the Kichwa nationality of Ecuador, the new Governing Council for the period 2015-2018 was elected. 
For this reason, the Ministry of Economic and Social Inclusion (MIES), legalized and recorded on June 12, 2015 to the Governing Council of the Indigenous and Peasant Movement of Tungurahua, elected on January 16, 2015 through Provincial Assembly. 
However, on September 12, 2015, several representatives of the MIT, with the help of current government officials, they did not know the Governing Council elected and legally registered by the MIES, and illegally summoned an extraordinary assembly to choose another Governing Council. 
On November 20, 2015, the Undersecretariat of Peoples and Interculturality of the Undersecretary of Politics Management, registers and legalizes the new directive chosen illegally. 
At the moment, there are two government advice in Tungurahua. 
This case is repeated in other nationalities and peoples as in the conference, in Zápara nationality, Shiwiar and in the Achuar nationality of Ecuador (NAE). 
These cases will be exposed in the IACHR. 
They intervene at the audience:  - Jorge Herrera, president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie. 
- Franco Viteri, president of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon (Conféde). 
- Manari Ushigua, president of zapara nationality  - Wilson Ordoñez, Conaie's lawyer  - Carlos Masabanda, Terra Mater's lawyer  - Mishel Erazo, from the Human Rights Center of the Pontifical Catholic University of Ecuador (PUCE)  At the hearing, the report on the freedom of association in the peoples and nationalities of Ecuador was presented. 
Requests:  As stated above, the following inter-American commission is asked to:  Recommend to Ecuadorian state to adapt internal regulations to respect and guarantee the right to freedom of association of indigenous peoples. 
To recommend to Ecuadorian state that competition on legalization and registration of nationalities and peoples and their respective directives lies in an Independent Body to a Secretariat or Ministry of the Executive and, taking into account international principles on participation and representation of indigenous peoples. 
Recommend to Ecuadorian State that any public policy, including in the regulatory area to regulate the situation of legalization and registration of the indigenous authorities, must respect the standards on prior consultation. 
Recommend to Ecuadorian state to refrain from interfering in the creation of parallel directives and authorities that promote the political crisis and the breaking of relationships between indigenous peoples and nationalities. 
Recommend to the Ecuadorian state that it reviews on the registration of authorities that have not necessarily been chosen in a legitimate manner following the organizations and customs of each people and nationality, and that in the case of finding irregularities, revoke this state recognition. 
[1] Thematic hearing are of a general nature that can be requested by civil society organizations or also by States in order to seek a reaction from State authorities. 
Photo: Screenshot Audience CIDH Theme Indigenous peoples and freedom of association   Photo: CIDH.   Audio audio:     Audience in Complete IACHR on theme: indigenous peoples and freedom of association  . 
