A delegation composed of members of the Governing Council of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conaie and the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of the Ecuadorian Amazon-Confedery visited Nankints during the Carnaval Feriado in Ecuador to verify the reality by which Shuar are going through and mestizos that are affected by the mining presence in the sector. 
The installation of the mining camp The hope of the EXSA mining company brought with it confrontation, displacement, militarization and other consequences that affect the integrity of the inhabitants in the area. 
By the government of Rafael Correa has tried to overshadow the realities of communities victimizing and not responsibly assuming its administration, according to visit spokesmen. 
Those who take the worst part of the consequences of mining exploitation are women, boys and girls, they affirm. 
The following is the "serious affectations to human rights" of the comuneros of four Shuar and communicated centers issued by the Organization. 
A (1) seriously wounded comunero with third grade burns Product of industrial manufacturing pumps planted by the Army at the Tsuntsuim Community (still without medical attention)  A (1) Comunero wounded with a high-caliber bullet by the army (recovered after two months of healing with ancestral medicine)  Dozens of industrial manufacturing burning pumps placed by the Army in Houses and Farms of the Tsuntsuim Community  Thirty-five (35) Families and one hundred and fifty (150) people displaced in the Tink community (not yet quantified the total number of displaced persons in other areas)  Four (4) Shuar centers directly affected with forced displacement after the complete militarization of their territories: Nankints, Tsuntsuim, San Pedro, Kutukus. 
More than Ocheinta (80) children, pregnant women, babies and elderly affected psychologically by the loss of their homes, crops, pets and forced output from their land, product of military invasion to their communities. 
More than sixty (60) children, girls and adolescents of school age have not had access to education in their respective establishments. 
Forty (40) local leaders persecuted and more than sixty (60) criminalized at the level of the Amazon by the Nankints case. 
More than fifteen (15) Shuar centers suffer direct impacts of Mega Mining at 41. 
700 hectares that encompasses the Mining Project San Carlos Panantza. 
Communists do not have guarantees to return to their communities and the situation of calamity and overcrowding is current without having made the lowest attempt to solve a conflict that persists for the disability of the scheme to understand that the topic of fund Environment of conflict in Shuar territory Ratals just in the mega mining in the southern Equatorian East. 
Faced with these irrefutable facts, we determinely require the Ecuadorian Government to recognize the facts and do not hide the Gravisian Human Rights of the Shuar People, 2 months of the State of Exception have just justified the militarization of the territory with the deep affectation to the collective rights of the Peoples and nationalities. 
We demand the total demilitarization of the Shuar territory and the repair of the damage caused by the unconscious action of the armed forces under the orders of the Ecuadorian State, unique and directly responsible for the violence that supposedly rejects but that on the contrary it has generated the military Shuar territory . 
We urge national and international human rights agencies to ensure the compensation of the violerated rights of the Shuar people and social organizations, public opinion and community in general to join stocks of solidarity before the drills committed. 
Confénia and Conaie Government Tips  We share photographs issued by the delegation   . 
