Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, November 29, 2018   The Confederation of the Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONEIE), thanked Victoria Tauli-Corpuz, Special Rapporteur on the rights of the UN Indigenous Peoples and recognizes his willingness to know the problems of peoples and nationalities, as well, we support What was said in the Preliminary End of Mission Report, after 11 days of visit to Ecuador, in which, it recommends the Government of Ecuador to direct concrete actions to repair the different violations of the rights of indigenous peoples and nationalities. 
Conaie next to its regional ECUARUNARI, CONFENIAE and CONAICE WITNESS OF THE ACTIVITIES IN THE TERRITORIES, WHERE, through dialogue with hundreds of representatives of communities, peoples and indigenous nationalities of the Sierra, the coast and the Amazon, we expose the main ones Problems that affect us and collects the report presented at a press conference. 
As a result of these territorial visits in its Preliminary Mission Preliminary Report Victoria Tauli-Corpuz reflects its concern about learning that the Government of Ecuador has not responded effectively to the main demands on land and territory rights, respect for authorities own and self-determination, indigenous justice systems, prior consultation, free and informed against extractivist and oil projects, the defense of nature, among other topics. 
For this reason, it draws attention and recommends the Government to take urgent measures to ensure compliance with the collective rights of our peoples and nationalities. 
In addition, it asks the Government to develop a "accessible, effective and adequate award system that allows full enjoyment of land rights, territories and natural resources in accordance with international human rights standards." 
Also, that recognizes community water management systems and prioritizes human needs, to ensure the access of peoples and nationalities to food, health and a healthy environment, among other aspects. 
He emphasized his concern about the operation of extractive industries, in particular, of the new concessions for "mining, oil and timber extraction, infrastructure development, such as hydroelectric dams, and agro-industrial activities that negatively impact lands, territories and natural resources ". 
He emphasized that state institutions have to develop appropriate procedures for the recognition of indigenous authorities and institutions in accordance with international human rights standards and in cooperation with indigenous peoples. 
It recommends the Government of Ecuador "to support indigenous proposals of governance, autonomy and development, which would contribute to guaranteeing multivision." 
In this context, he reported that he will follow up as affirmed by the Council of the Judiciary on a proposal in coordination with the Conaie to advance procedures "related to cooperation and coordination between both systems of justice, the establishment of a Truth Commission and the training of ordinary justice operators on the rights of indigenous peoples and their justice systems ". 
In this sense, he ratified that the State should consider urgent coordination between indigenous justice and the ordinary justice system, in order to apply autonomy and coexistence in peoples and communities. 
About our indigenous women acknowledged their fundamental role as defenders of land, resources and as transmitters of languages, cultures and traditions. 
He showed concern about several cases of criminalization towards indigenous women leaders for their active role in protecting their rights, and cases of impunity in these processes. 
Among its concluding observations, the Government of Lenin Moreno was requested to comply with the Constitution to direct the plurinationality, since it is concerned about the "no recognition and implementation of the rights of indigenous peoples consecrated in international human rights law. 
The protection of nature rights can not be achieved without protecting those who protect it "  The Special Rapporteur will present the final report on the visit of it to Ecuador to the Human Rights Council of the UN in Geneva, in September 2019. 
. 
