Yesterday, April 22, the International Day of Mother Earth was held at times where whole humanity faces Covid-19, a pandemic that has evidenced how our relationship is with nature, ecosystems and all living beings that We live on Earth, as well as our fragility and action capacity of governments to precede the health of the inhabitants, but fundamentally, the progress of the coronavirus has demonstrated the importance of preserving nature, free territories of extractivism and natural resources such as the Water are the key to our survival. 
Ecuador faces an additional tragedy, because on April 7, the North Amazon, between the provinces of Napo and Sucumbíos, suffered a large oil spill for the bulk of the Trancatorian oil pipeline system (SOTE) and the pipeline Of heavy raw (OCP), it is worth mentioning that it was a tragedy announced because it would be related to the collapse of the San Rafael waterfall on February 2, by this spill there are approximately 118. 
000 Affected people, 2000 indigenous families belonging to 22 parishes in the provinces of Napo, Orellana and Sucumbíos, and the rights to water, food, health, healthy environment and dignified life were violated. 
Since the State, the absence of an immediate reaction protocol was evident in this environmental emergency as OCP and Petroecuador enterprises did not alert the spill immediately and delay more than 10 days in the delivery of safe water to the population, submitting it to the rain To have this resource, despite knowing the integral relationship of Amazonian communities with nature and daily activities such as fishing, health, hygiene, which perform with river water. 
Common reports, community presidents and communicators together with audiovisual evidence were key so that the first alerts of the real magnitude and environmental involvement of the oil spill are issued. 
In spite of this serious situation René Ortiz, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, he announced his intention to continue tenthly for oil extrectivist and large-scale mining in the National Assembly  , taking advantage of the context of global crisis by the Coronavirus and the crisis that is lived in Ecuador, but we reminded by the authorities and ministries, who are pending compliance with sentences in cases: Waorani, Sinanegoe and Pieta, among other cases Emblematic with judgments favorable to nature. 
The # MiningAfensibility is one of the pillars for the economic development of Ecuador. 
pic. 
twitter. 
COM / NZA2QGM7PK- Mining with Responsibility (@MineriConresp) April 22, 2020  René Ortiz: "The future of Ecuador would be in mining and from the ministry we will provide all impulses to industrial mining without neglecting artisanal mining that has been valid for years." 
#SectorsQueTrabaJanporti # StayTeenCasseas - Resources and Energy EC (@RecnatResc) April 22, 2020  René Ortiz has forgotten that the departure to the crisis is in the production of the field that has saved the country and guarantees the feeding of Ecuadorians during the SANTARIA emergency by Covid-19, the strengthening of mining and oil extractivism is contrary to the life of the villages. 
The NAPO and COCA rivers are poisoned oil, Kichwas families on the banks have no water or food in the middle of the pandemic due to the spill, but with all lightness the head of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources express: "We are at peace, We are calm "because oil contracts are safe. 
Human rights and nature's rights are recognized by the Ecuadorian Constitution, today more than the defense of natural resources and mostly from water is never fundamental, before prioritizing more oil contracts and mining concessions the State must repair and remedy The victims of this spill and fulfill the favorable sentences that have achieved the Amazonian communities to protect nature and territories, which today ensure production and food aid to solve the emergency for advance of COVID-19. 
. 
