August 06, 2020   The Expanded Council of the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador - Conaie assembled through the virtual platform on Thursday, August 06, 2020, with the participation of peoples, nationalities, provincial, regional organizations (Conféde, Conaice and Ecuarunari) and the Political Arm Movement of Plurinational Unit Pachakutik - MUPP with its national coordinator Marlon Santi; After an extensive debate, analysis and evaluation of the organizational situation, impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on peoples, nationalities and national electoral conjuncture resolves:  1. 
Hold the internal unit of the entire organizational structure of the indigenous movement in front of the current electoral juncture. 
The unity and social strength built during history and ratified on the streets in October 2019 can not be fractionated and weakened, our organizational agenda will go beyond a period of elections. 
In this sense, the leaders assume the responsibility of continuing to fight and facing the governments of shift who seek the weakening of the organizations of the popular sector of the countryside and the city and prevent the transformation of the colonial, capitalist and patriarchal state. 
2. 
Recognize the fundamental contribution given by the indigenous, peasant, neighborhood and popular organizations of the countryside and the city to face the health crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic before state absence, generating concrete solutions that became real outlets for the country In the midst of the governance crisis, scandals of corruption and poor management of the health emergency, such as: the strengthening of the marketing channels of the countryside to the city with fair trade mechanisms to face the speculation of prices in the hands of the Intermediaries, encouraging the mechanisms of burial and community markets, the knowledge of our Yachak to face the pandemic, activation of communication campaigns in originating languages, control of our territories, self-management and social - humanitarian care. 
3. 
Promote, strengthen and expand the National Unity of the Popular, Social Sectors of the Field and the City by continuing the process built through the Plurinational Parliament of the Ecuador Peoples and Collectives of Ecuador for the organizational strengthening and the articulation of our demands expressed in the proposal Minge for life for the construction of a true popular power in and from our territories. 
4. 
Allow the resolutions of the Pachakutik Political Council made on July 30, 2020, based on the historical legitimacy of the CONAIE and exhort that the designation of candidates for Dignities to President, Vice President, National Assemblymen, Provincial Assemblyers And Andean parliamentarians are carried out in coordination and active participation, with a voice and vote, of the organizational structure of the indigenous movement, guaranteeing a transparent electoral process in which the popular will is expressed democratically and publicly. 
Therefore, the MUPP must create and guarantee the necessary conditions to reach a consensus, if not, to go to extensive primary, free and democratic elections where the basic organizations of our structure as a legitimate and participatory process in attachment participate to our historical, political and ideological collective principles. 
5. 
Supporting colleagues: Jaime Vargas and Leonidas Iza Salazar as Presididados to the Presidency of the Republic of Ecuador, who are partners of the Pachakutik Plurinational Unit movement and trajectory leaders within the indigenous movement, whose leadership throughout the country is undeniable, whose leadership is undeniable, We will respect the decisions that take for the benefit of organizations and the country. 
6. 
Exhort, in these elections and in the future, to which the authorities by popular election culminate with their periods for which they were elected and fulfill their proposed work plan, as well as their commitment to the will of the people, which deserves respect Within coherence with our collective principles. 
7. 
Reject the discredit campaigns activated against the indigenous movement and the Pachakutik Plurinational Unit movement directed by the Ecuadorian right, the current Government, the Correo, the left pseudo and different political actors that seek to fulfill their individual interests. 
. 
