The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conaie assembled in Political Council on Monday, June 1, 2020, making use of digital platforms, before the health emergency caused by Covid-19, with the participation of the leaders of the Governing Council of The Conaie, together with the three regional ECUARUNARI, CONFENIATE, CONAICE and more invited leaders, after a deep debate and analysis on the current situation resolves the following:  Maintain until June 15, 2020 the measures of sanitary control and social isolation (quarantine) to guarantee the integral health of our colleagues, and at the same time implement and strengthen the contingency plans and protocols against the accelerated expansion of the COVID -19 In indigenous territories, this due to the increase in positive cases confirmed in the communities of indigenous peoples and nationalities in the three regions of Ecuador. 
Support the mobilizations convened by the workers' sector, student and social organizations against neoliberal economic measures imposed by the national government, we will progressively add up and prepare mobilization actions as long as there are the conditions that guarantee the health of our grassroots organizations. 
Request rapid and PCR tests, inputs, medicines, hospital instruments and biosecurity clothing, through donations from national and international organizations for its delivery to the basic organizations to guarantee the integrity of our populations. 
Exhort the Ministry of Education so that it guarantees the provision of technology necessary to rural and popular sectors according to the implementation of the modality of virtual classes, since the technological and connectivity gap that exists in rural, peri-urban and marginal areas Throughout the country makes virtual education impossible for these sectors. 
Virtual education is only compatible with a small part of the population while large majorities are excluded. 
For which we demand:  An urgent action plan that reduces the technological and connectivity gap, promote a massive Internet access policy as a basic service. 
Strengthening of MOSEIB and its teaching teaching guidelines: guaranteeing the impression and distribution of these guides to each student in coordination with the cantonal copae and COE. 
Reject divisional policies undertaken by various media and political actors who intend to weaken our movement, Conaie consistent with its principles of constant struggle for the defense of the rights of indigenous nationalities and the Ecuadorian people, we work for the welfare of indigenous movement and the popular sectors. 
Therefore, we call on our regional and their bases on unity and the strengthening of our actions against the VOC-19 pandemic and neoliberal economic measures implemented by the national government. 
Declare to June as a month of the collective memory and the historical continuity of the struggle of peoples for their emancipation, this within the framework of the commemoration of the 30 years of the first large indigenous uprising. 
For constancy, sign:  Jaime Vargas.  President Conaie.   Marlon Vargas.  Conféniae President   Javier Aguavil.  President CONAICE.   Carlos Sucuzhañay.  President of ECUARUNARI.  . 
