The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conaie assembled in Political Board on Saturday, May 16, 2020, making use of digital platforms, before the health emergency caused by Covid19, with the participation of the leaders of the Conaie Government Council, together At the three regional ECUARUNARI, CONFENIATE, CONAICE, GUEST ADDRESS AND THE MUPP, after a deep debate and analysis on the current situation is resolved the following:

Reject approval by the National Assembly of the "Organic Human Support Law" to combat the health crisis derived from the Covid19, since it favors the enrichment of the bourgeoisie and attentive against the rights of the workers, peasants and indigenous people who end up paying the crisis Although there are thousands of partners infected and deceased as a result of the coronavirus, in that sense, we repudiate the traitorous attitude of Eddy Peñafiel Left, who in an intake behavior to the interests of national and foreign entrepreneurs, as well as their delivery To the Neoliberal Government of Moreno, voted in favor of this law and for this reason we ask for its expulsion based on the organic regime of Pachakutik-MUPP plurinational unit movement, in addition, we declare it as a non-pleasant person for the Ecuadorian people and therefore, that An investigation is initiated in indigenous jurisdiction to identify those who were behind the alleged negotiations. 
Reiterate the urgency and urgent execution of the economic program delivered in the month of October 2019 by the Parliament of the Peoples, Organizations and Social Groups of Ecuador as a real alternative to get out of the economic crisis in which we find ourselves. 
Require the dismissal of Richard Martínez, Minister of Economy and Finance, to privilege the payment of the external debt and cut the budget of the National System of Education and the Universities and be the author of the nefarious economic laws. 
As long as we demand the allocation of the budget established by the Constitution: 6% of GDP for education and 4% for health. 
Require no more impunity to the acts of theft and corruption in the public and private sectors in the midst of the health crisis, because they take advantage of the suffering of thousands of Ecuadorians to enrich themselves in an unemployment of the sectors exploited and impoverished of the countryside and the city of our country. 
Reiterate to the Government the requirement so that it allocates the necessary resources to obtain the tests of Covid19 tests and perform them in a massive way to the population, we denounce that, in the rural sector, in territories of peoples and nationalities, the tests are null, practically not There are, so vulnerability to pandemic is high and is essential to avoid the proliferation of contagion. 
Reiterate our support for protection action with precautionary measures before the oil spill of more than 15. 
800 barrels of crude oil in the rivers Coca and Napo caused on April 7 after the sinking of the Trancatorian oil system Sote, which has affected more than 105 indigenous and peasant communities. 
The CONAIE supports the demand for protection action imposed by the Conféniae and the base organizations of the town against the Ecuadorian State. 
Continue with the Community fairs in each territory and between regional as an urgent need to alleviate the economic crisis and thus strengthen peasant and indigenous family agriculture, guaranteeing diversified, agroecological production, and direct distribution, at fair prices, to the population. vulnerable. 
Calling the Provincial Coordinations of MUPP that organically should carry out a coordinated work with the Base organizations of the CONAIE guaranteeing the strengthening of the indigenous movement. 
Solidarize with the and colleagues of the Coordinator of Social Organizations of Guayas for the repression they suffered and, to reject arbitrary detention by the National Police in the Scholar "we are mourning and in resistance" called in memory of the deceased, in the city From Guayaquil. 
Send a letter to CREAMER MONSERRAT, Minister of Education, and Companion Rómulo Antún, Secretary of Intercultural Education Bilingual-Seib, with the aim of maintaining a virtual meeting to address the education issue of the children of our communities that are not Supplied with the Internet. 
For constancy, sign:   Jaime Vargas.  President Conaie.   Marlon Vargas.  Conféniae President   Javier Aguavil.  President CONAICE.   Carlos Sucuzhañay.  President of ECUARUNARI.  . 
