On November 17, 2015, the expanded Council of La Conaie gathered at its headquarters in the city of Quito, resolves:  1. 
Participate actively in the city of Quito, in the mobilization of November 26 convened by the national coordination collective of social organizations, carried out in Guayaquil on November 14. 
2. 
Activate with strength, decision and strategically, indigenous and popular lifting at the national level, together with other social organizations, at the time they begin the second and definitive debate, on the package of constitutional amendments in the National Assembly. 
3. 
Require, the immediate freedom of the political prisoners and the file of the causes of the Companists prosecuted by the Republic Government of Rafael Correa and denounce these abuses nationally and internationally. 
4. 
Political and legally supporting political and legally political persecuted at the national level by the month of the month of August and at the same time monitoring the different processes from the Legal Bureau headed by the Legal team of the CONAIE. 
In this same sense to raise a permanent campaign for the collection of funds that help cope with the expenses that require the judgments. 
5. 
Declare in Permanent Assemblies to socialize in the bases the struggle platform, the resolutions taken at the different Assemblies of the CONAIE as well as in its regional ECUARRUNARI, CONFENIATE and CONAICE with the purpose of generating awareness and guaranteeing a massive call on the continuation of the survey Indigenous and popular. 
6. 
Reject the interference of the national government in organizations with the aim of dividing, demobilizing, cheating, generating congresses, assemblies, government councils parallel to the legitimate of the base organizations of the Conaie, Regional and Provincial. 
7. 
Support and Total Support for the Sovereign Decision taken by the Ordinary Assembly of the Conféniae as a Base Union on November 13 and 14 where it ratifies the presidency of the Franco Viteri partner. 
8. 
The basic organizations reject legal recognitions by the Colonial State, oppressive and capitalist State as a political condition for the Government, consequently, it requires that ConaE and its regional becoming appointments to organizations and their authorities, exercising the right to Self-determination declared in the Constitution of the Republic, Agreements and International Treaties. 
Sincerely,   Jorge Herrera Morocho  President of the Conaie  . 
