The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-CONAIE gathered urgently on a political council on Thursday, May 21, 2020, making use of digital platforms, with the participation of the leaders of the Governing Council of the Conaie, together with the three Regional: ECUARUNARI, CONFENIATE, CONAICE AND GUEST ADDITIONS, After a profound debate and analysis before the disastrous management and decision adopted by the Government in this health emergency by Covid19 that crosses the country and the world resolves the following:  1. 
Reject the approval of the Humanitarian Support Law and the Public Finance Ordering Law, as well as the economic measures adopted by the National Government during the health crisis, because they deepen neoliberal policy over the well-being of the population, violent the rights established In the ILO Conventions and the Constitution itself by legalizing precarization and labor flexibilization and social security; which is producing massive layoffs; dismantling the public sector and subsequent privatization; as well as the elimination of subsidies with the mechanism of "bands" whose application is not clear for the population. 
All this responds to demands of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and business groups (Juri, Lasso, Noboa, EGAS, among others), therefore, Conaie together with other social sectors of the country will make a demand for unconstitutionality to the Ecuadorian State on the aforementioned laws for the violation of fundamental rights. 
2. 
Report the perverse way with which the government takes advantage of the pandemic and the confinement of the population in the state of exception, to impose neoliberal measures machined from before the health emergency, in the style of an economic shock, demonstrating a total human misery fruit of the privilege of capital over life. 
No other neoliberal government in the history of the country acted with such a level of submission to global imperialism, IMF and national power groups. 
These moments the Covid19 whip the indigenous territories and there is total abandonment of the State, which forces us to prioritize life and protect the health of our colleagues, however, we will progressively join the mobilization actions convened by students and workers, we will continue Preparing with our bases a great day of struggle. 
3. 
Reactivate the Parliament of the Peoples, Organizations and Social Groups of Ecuador, to reconstitute a political economic committee that revises and updates the proposal of the Economic Program delivered to the National Government and the National Assembly after the Fighting Day of the month of October 2019, what what is the basis of an economic alternative to neoliberalism. 
4. 
Support and support the biosegural seedlings performed by the different social sectors in defense of rights and in rejection of budget cuts to the public sector in the midst of the health crisis, express our solidarity and commitment to fight with all the people who have lost their employment during this time. 
5. 
Reiterate our demand to the national government for the control and monitoring of the correct functioning of trade in basic goods such as food, to avoid speculation at the price and implement fair trade, both for small producers, microenterprises and ventures, as well as for large Commercial chains, in this way evidence illegal practices of economic concentration in devastating fair, transparent and equitable trade. 
6. 
Equip with biosafety implements to our Yachak who work to avoid contagion and the spread of Covid-19 in indigenous peoples and nationalities; Massify the production of natural medicine for distribution and exchange to counteract the increase of COVID-19 cases in our territories against the abandonment of the State. 
7. 
Strengthen community fairs in each territory and among regional based on our principles of integrality, reciprocity and complementarity, as an urgent need to supply the economic crisis. 
8. 
Report the public call to radio frequency contest, since it does not take into account current conditions during isolation, state of exception and curfew, a situation that complicates the mobility of community organizations, mainly of the peoples and the popular sector, indirectly preventing your participation in this contest. 
We reject the period of one month stipulated for the delivery of the required documents, this period does not take into account the difficult economic and social conditions in which the country is located and the concrete access to this process from social organizations, peoples, indigenous nationalities and Afro-descendants. 
So to participate in this contest means an economic investment that hardly organizations and peoples will hardly have. 
In addition, previous socialization was not carried out, adequately on the requirements and procedure thereof. 
For constancy, sign:  Jaime Vargas.  President Conaie.   Marlon Vargas.  Conféniae President   Javier Aguavil.  President CONAICE.   Carlos Sucuzhañay.  President of ECUARUNARI.  . 
