Press release  Rafael Correa, president of Ecuador, has pointed out through the Twitter account of him that the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-Conaie, is "converted into Appendix with Poncho of the MPD". 
What demonstrates a racist, sectarian and discriminatory act towards indigenous peoples and nationalities. 
In addition, it ensures that "they call another 'uprising', but not for indigenous reasons, but by politicia" with what highlights the sectarian look it has. 
For your knowledge, Rafael Correa, the uprising declared on August 10, 2015 in the city of Latacunga has not yet finished, continues. 
Our struggle has never been only for indigenous people, but by all those who are dominated, oppressed, exploited by the Governments of Turn that respond to the interests of large transnational companies, the capitalist system, to the neoliberal model as It happens with this government presiding. 
He has pointed out that the "Conaie is burying the indigenous movement, which was a sign of hope for all of us." 
We demand the Government of Rafael Correa, to the Country Alliance that stops dividing indigenous organizations by conscience to Seudo Representatives, who submit to their ideological model, because in that way is that you (AP) try to bury the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador. 
For us, divisionist attempts, several shift governments have tried to "bury ourselves" because we are hindering for the interests of the capitalist, neoliberal system. 
But, they have not achieved it and they will not get it. 
We are not only the leaders as well as you conceive. 
Conaie is found in every corner of the country and in brothers countries, is in the hearts of each of the indigenous and non-indigenous coherent with the historical process. 
Conaie is always properative. 
Where do you think the concepts of plurinationality, interculturality and the Sumak Kawsay come from? Why does not it take into account the proposals made for the Aguas Law, Land Law, Water Resources and other laws?  Conaie walks by history, not by conjunctures. 
By the Governing Council  Jorge Herrera.  President Conaie.   Document in PDF Response to Rafael's declarations Correa to La Conaie  . 
