The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, came to the Community of San Marcos, of the Parish Tundayme, Canton The Pangui, Province of Zamora Chinchipe of Ecuador, in which the environmental "disaster" that causes mining exploitation In open sky in the incial phase. 
The Ecuadorian Government provides security and guarantees to transnationals, in this case to Ecuacorient's mining company. 
S. 
A. 
, but violent the rights of nature and human rights. 
On September 30, 13 families in the area were evicted. 
"This is a disaster," says Jorge Herrera President of the Conaie at the bottom of the cameon in which they managed to enter the site where a pool is built for the mining process. 
Jorge Herrera and other colleagues who accompanied the Comitciba were transferred in a cameon that wore a chiva, because to say the owner of the Camulon would not let go. 
Before the authorities of the peoples and nationalities go up to the journey, the second indicates that when arriving at the control "they should only duck the head and not say anything", but in case they were disguised that they said "we are authorities" . 
With the premises given they embark. 
The road that joins the San Marcos community with the Tundayme parish is full of potholes, because there circulate the "tremendous montruos", machinery that are used in open-pit mining. 
The lodazal caused by the exploration and circulation of the machinery makes it possible to circulate the small vehicles by the "public" way, and worse from passers-by. 
The commuiers in the area indicate that they can not be calm while the company continues in place, because they mentioned that there will be more evictions. 
"13 families are already carried out, but they are not all," he says. 
Abel Arpi, from the Assembly of South Peoples, indicates that it is painful to observe that the contaminated rivers. 
"Now the river no longer has its own color, it is yellowish and it does not serve for human, animal consumption." 
For this reason, it ensures that it is an attack on the rights of nature and human rights. 
While the contaminated river was observed, the destroyed forest and the different operations, perforations that make the land reached the leadership and began to speak Grotezca "can not be here, this is private property!". 
They tried to take out the authorities from the peoples and nationalities by pushing themselves. 
Those who realized the inspection only said they found out why there is no step on a public road. 
The security of the company said "You have to call the police". 
The 30s the 13 families were violently evicted by the National Police of Ecuador and ECSA security. 
Although the government mentioned that it was peaceful, the evidences say otherwise. 
The relatives pointed out that they will fight for their lands and will not allow foreigners to appropriate their territories. 
An older woman said "San Marcos is in danger since the Ecuacorient Chinese mining arrived." 
But they assured that they will recover and will not allow them to destroy the nature and evict them from their territories. 
Check the photographic album  . 
