Taken from Inredh  Photo: @conaie_ecuador.  The Community of St. Paul de Amalí, Canton Chillanes, Bolívar Province, presented before the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) the request for precautionary measure for the construction of a wall of flood protection before the possible havoc in the phenomenon of El Niño. 
This legal action is performed after Judge Jorge Raúl Ávila of the judicial unit of the Canton Chillanes will denote the precautionary measure on December 7, 2015. 
The argument was that it is not competent to request the construction of the wall. 
This is unaware that the precautionary measures are precisely to suspend, avoid, prevent or interrupt serious damage to recognized rights in the Constitution. 
This was assured Daniel Véjar, community lawyer. 
In San Pablo de Amalí, the hydrotamque hydroelectric dam was built. 
A that diverted the flow of the Dulcepamba River by bringing him closer to the community. 
In March of the previous year, the River grew and generated an overflow of the flow, the death of three people and the loss of houses, land and plages. 
This scenario could get worse at the arrival of the phenomenon of El Niño, by it Manuel Trujillo, president of the San Pablo community of Amali, together with the Regional Foundation of Human Rights Advisory (INREDH) presented this precautionary measure in international organizations. 
In the precautionary extent it is pointed out that there is an omission of compliance with the obligation to have a contingency plan and that the non-construction of the wall can generate irreparable damage. 
In addition, the San Pablo community of Amali asks the IACHR to suspend the functioning of the hydroelectric, which is already concluded until the Commission knows the fund of the case Signified with the P449-10 number and issues its respective background report. 
Press Contacts:  Manuel Trujillo: President of the Community of St. Paul de Amalí: 0979580163  Jessica Matute Quintero / Communication Inredh: 0998287754  . 
