In the interection of the Rivers Kim and Tundoim sector San Marcos Private security personnel of the Ecuacorient China mining company S. 
A. 
, accompanied by the National Police of Ecuador and guarded by the military entered the housing of the heirs uyaguari-guanán and evicted "violently", the representative of the Amazonian Community of Social Action "Cordillera del Cóndor Mirador "(Cascomi). 
According to CEDHU published that the Uyaguari family is one of the processes of mining servitude initiated by the company before the Mining Regulation Control Agency, Arcom, against several Finquerous Families in the area to start work for the Extraction of copper under the open-pit modality, in the Cordillera del Cóndor, a highly sensitive area ecologically and that is in the territory of Shuar communities and mestizo peasant families. 
The first environmental damages were already evidenced months ago, the result of the infrastructure work of the company, when flooding and water contamination were recorded, in addition to the survey of the vegetable layer that has already started in the area. 
Inredh points out that approximately one hundred hectares will be affected by the works related to mining activities as the ecosystem will be destroyed for the opening of roads and platforms for perforations. 
At the moment, three perforations have been made and six platforms are ready for excavations. 
We become the authorities of the Ecuador State and the human rights organizations of the country and the world that Ecuacoriente S. 
A is causing irreparable environmental and social damages to community as a violent evictions and patience of the competent authorities and the partialial justice of Ecuador. 
The Amazonian Community of Social Action "Coordillera del Cóndor Mirador" Cascomi accounts for the Ecuadorian State and its Governments of Turno for all the environmental and social damages caused by the territory and will be directly responsible for damages to the physical integrity, psychological of the comuneros that are Defending his land by preventing persons from Minera to continue to take more damage to the grounds of said community. 
For more information:  Luis Sánchez, President of Cascomi  (593) 0967415485  . 
