Press release  Latacunga, April 25, 2017  On the night of April 24, the Shuar Leader, Agustín Wachapá was released, former president of the Interprovincial Federation of Shuar Centers FICSH and a leader of well-known trajectory in the Amazon struggle; At the departure of him was received by the president of the indigenous and peasant movement of Cotopaxi-Micc, Leonidas Iza Salazar and the President of the Conaie, Jorge Herrera. 
Today, Tuesday, April 25, it provided a press conference with the presence of dozens of friends, family and authorities of the indigenous movement: MICC, CONAIE, Conféniae and its Shuar Bases to give a message to the Ecuadorian people. 
"Without amnesty there is no dialogue" they were the statements of the highest indigenous leaders of the country, Jorge Herrera, Conaie; And Marlon Vargas, Conféniae. 
The leaders interpelled in this way the new government and that despite the release of Augustine with the payment of a bail of 6000 dollars, the judgment against him still continues and criminalization against more than 150 leaders of Ecuador remains valid. 
"I thank my family and my God Arutam," were the words of the Shuar leader who in an emotional speech reported the media and the public the unfair persecution against him within the framework of Nankins' events and who are of Public knowledge 
"He called the new commander to advance in a government for all, because we are all Ecuadorians," he dictated. 
Wachapá, 46, is a native of the Piankas community, Canton Mendez. 
He has a degree in health development, and he is four children, comments Romel Wachapá, his oldest son, who never lost faith and received with Algarrabe the news, with tears in his eyes he told the sufferings lived by the family to free up his father. 
Agustín led the historic Shuar Fiction Federation for three years and is one of the maximum leaders of the defense of the Amazonian territories. 
As Conaie and Confédae extend our combative greeting to our brother and his family, emphasizing our firm commitment to fight until the last consequences for the amnesty of all criminalized and political persecuted in Ecuador. 
The indigenous movement, in the afternoon, will accompany the return to the Amazon of Agustín Wachapá and his relatives to make the symbolic delivery to the Shuar people. 
Government Council of Conaie and Conféniae  PDF Bulletin  . 
