Press release  D. 
M. 
Quito, August 9, 2018  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador-CONAIE extends a fraternal and combative greeting of brotherhood to all the peoples and indigenous nationalities of the world, especially the nationalities and peoples of Ecuador on this international day of indigenous peoples according to the General Assembly Decision of The United Nations carried out in 1995. 
According to the UN Secretary General, António Guterres, calls that "in this annual commemoration, let us compromise to fully make the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, including rights to self-determination and land, Territories and traditional resources. 
"  In Ecuador we went through a transition time in the State Administration, accompanied by a crisis in several institutions, as well as economic policies (extractivist model) that affect the territories and violate the collective rights of indigenous peoples. 
Although the indigenous sector manages to have representativeness in some powers of the State with frames formed in rows of the indigenous movement; Like Luis Macas in Council of Citizen Participation and Transient Social Control, and Diana Atamaint in National Electoral Council, there is a lot to abolish the uninational, colonial and discriminating character that the State has and its appliances to really give way to collective construction towards the State Plurinational and an intercultural society. 
According to the UN, indigenous peoples are distributed in the world in more than 5000 different groups located in 90 countries and with approximately 7000 languages. 
The population of the original peoples is approximately 370 million people, that is, more than 5% of the world's population, and without and, however, are among the most disadvantaged and vulnerable populations representing 15 percent of the most Poor 
The last 10 years of the Correo was an accomplice of the recoil in terms of law of the indigenous peoples achieved by constant struggle. 
It is the obligation of the Government of Turno to find strategies that enable a real integration between the diversity existing in the country. 
Above all, it is necessary to take into account the different initiatives that from indigenous peoples is presented as an alternative to the extractivist economic model. 
As indigenous peoples and nationalities we will continue to stand out for the demand for compliance with our rights and seek a real transformation for the liberation of peoples. 
We call for unity among the peoples in Ecuador and the world for the struggle in defense of our territories, rights, life itself and self-government in our territorial spaces. 
By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President Conaie.  Bulletin in PDF.  . 
