D. 
M. 
, Quito, May 162020  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, has marked its history based on popular struggles, are decades of dispute and opposition to power in favor of the dispossessed to which we owe ourselves, because from there we were born, from there we come, there We forge us, the holders of collective rights, communes, communities, peoples and indigenous nationalities, as well as peasants and workers, who with their work have built and maintain this country, of which the large capitalists extract their wealth at the expense of exploitation of the territory and of the workforce. 
The approval of the Organic Law of Public Finance Organization is an attack on the Social Security System in contempt for the Supreme Standard of the Political Constitution of Ecuador, when in article 372 it says that the institutions mentioned are autonomous. 
With the "Humanitarian Support Law", we face a voracious neoliberal adjustment policy that does not originate in the health crisis Covid-19, this is the longing of the retrograde right for decades and saw in the pandemic, as " Good capitalists "-the capital over life-, the perfect opportunity to boost economic shock against the working class, with a reform that ensures the dictatorship of capital. 
This project imposes neoliberalism in a single figure: "Common agreement ... bilateral and direct" between workers and employers, "the economic conditions of the employment relationship" without mediation or regulation of the State, which leaves the worker in a situation of total helplessness , for the simple fact of who has capital imposes his will at all costs to maintain his gain rate, even about the worker's life, that the source of richness of capitalism. 
In the same way, it imposes conditions such as, the non-payment of extraordinary hours, nor supplementary according to the agreed day, the remuneration and contribution to social security can be reduced to a 55% of their remuneration, the right to Holidays is at the employer's will and with respect to teleworking the time of disconnection can be 12 hours, with what expands the working day at 12 hours in this type of modality. 
A nefarious blow to the working class of the countryside - country of the country, and more disastrous for our organization when one of the members of our Pachakutik political arm gave its positive vote to this law betraying the decision of the bases that welcomed her organically The partner and the 3 assembly fellow (4), this fills us with indignation, even more when we suffer from the Government Troll's attacks by pointing out internal agreements that did not exist. 
As Conaie, we ordered the expulsion, application of indigenous justice and declaration of traitor of the people to Mr. Eddy Peñafiel and to investigate if there were people who in the name of the Movement were negotiating personal interests. 
We are still in resistance   By the Governing Council  Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
