D. 
M. 
, Quito, April 132020  The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, considers an attack on family economies of the working class the announcement of new economic measures issued by the Government on Friday, April 10, 2020; In the health, economic and social crisis for the spread of the Covid 19 in Ecuador we are the workers who are daily in the first response line, we are the workers of the field and the city who we have put the human contingent, the dead and the silver ; However, thousands of families in the public sector have not received the payment of their salaries of the month of March, on the other hand Richard Martínez Alvarado, Minister of Economy and Finance allocated USD 324 million for the payment of the 2020 bonds at the same time than around 2000 Teachers to contract have been unlocked and more than 60% of the population does not have full employment. 
In the global crisis accentuated by the coronavirus expansion most countries decided not to pay or establish moratorium on the payment of the external debt, prioritizing life, the public health system and the urgent needs of peoples such as work, education and health . 
In Ecuador, USD 324 million of the external debt was paid and the resources of the public health system were condemned, now they intend to loot once again the pocket of the Ecuadorians, these actions are explained by the linking of representatives of the bourgeoisie in the main ones State charges, at the same time, this is unprecedented as the same IMF and the World Bank, asked the poor countries to freeze the payment of debts and can free up this money to combat the Coronavirus pandemic. 
Now the Government with measures without planning wants to transfer the weight of the crisis to the working class, taking advantage of the context generated by the propagation of the Coronavirus, since the lack of liquidity of the State is delivering when since 2019, it forgave, with the "Tax Reference", debts for more than 4 billion dollars to business groups and now want to strip public and private workers with the supposed contribution to the "Solidarity Fund" to those who earn from $ 500, this means harming the popular sectors that monthly even They manage to reach the 700 dollars from the basic family basket (CFB). 
Minister Richard Martínez Alvarado seems enemy of the workers, with his announcement from Sunday, April 12, 2020 account for the corporate interests to which he represents, since he grants a series of benefits to business groups to the detriment of labor rights, the Appointments to apply the new economic measures give free via deregulation and precariousness, and therefore: reduction of salaries, no fired prohibition, possibility of discounting quarantine with cumulative vacations, deferred payment of salaries during indefinite periods, among others Vulnerations, without exposing real measures to protect employment and set fair working conditions in this crisis. 
These are the consequences of the State to cover up the major debtors of the payment of taxes, fines and interest at the Internal Revenue Service (SRI); Among those who are: the banks of Pichincha, Guayaquil, Pacific; Telephone operators CONCELA and OTECEL, ANDES PETROLEUM, NOBAA, PRONACY, etc; Being the commercial, industrial and financial bourgeoisie who accumulates more and more wealth but owed more than 6. 
200 million dollars and maintains, with the government's coming, its exclusive economic interests. 
For all this we believe that the social crisis is mainly aggravated by the economic decisions of the Government, reflecting indolence, disability and incompetence to manage public resources and generate social and economic well-being in this health emergency, family economies face a more blow, what It makes itself unsustainable to generate a new salary tax as long as there is no real and comprehensive proposal to protect the key sectors such as the System of Health, Food, Education, Social Security of Ecuadorians as essential priorities, on the contrary, in full sanitary emergency imposes a panorama Uncertain for public, private and city workers, as well as, for the thousands of families living in daily effort and current restrictions are more vulnerable. 
The Conaie in 2019 presented a series of economic proposals that are valid in the current context, with the finding that the IMF impositions imply: concentration of income in the richest, establishment of mercantile relations that fracture to society, expanding the Extractivist projects Especially oil and miner in violent essence and predators of communities and nature, exclusion of wealth to the majority of the population, authoritarianism to sustain and protect their measures, imposition from outside of democratic institutions and rules, use of the State and economic policy for its own benefit and economic power groups. 
Among the main proposals presented in 2019 are urgent:  Pay immediately, corresponding to the month of March, to public servants. 
At the same day of the teacher, the celebration that the Government does to the Ecuadorian Magisterium is not paying the salary on time. 
Increase the currency exit tax (ISD) to prevent capital leakage and the transfer of richness to tax havens, as well as increase control over imports. 
Declare the moratorium on external debt and transfer the budgeted for this payment to the public health system and food aid to the thousands of families and more impoverished sectors;  Issue presidential decree for the prohibition of massive dismissals in the public and private sector;  Impose a tax of 1% to assets to the 270 economic groups, which would allow you to obtain 1. 
157.2 million USD. 
Return to the central bank of Ecuador, the management of electronic money and expand its use to ensure liquidity during the health emergency. 
Prioritally promoting the agroecology, family agriculture campesin and communal in the agricultural policies of the country, reversing the current tendency that favors the agribusiness. 
Eliminate life salaries former presidents and former vice-presidents and the reduction of public and private officials who earn more than $ 4000 USD. 
Prepare the Law that allows the control and extinguishing of domain that specifies the mechanisms that will be launched to sanction and recover illuminated resources from both public and private corruption, as well as the extradition of capital that are in tax havens. 
In this scenario, it is time to defend the historical conquests of the workers and prevent the reform flattener from passing over the economy of poor households. 
In such virtue, the demands of the indigenous movement, the union movement, the popular organizations, the movement of women and the people in general are together to push a unit program. 
Jaime Vargas.  President of the Conaie  . 
