Photo: Cassandra Productions. 
Several representatives of the Sapara nation reported that the company Andes Petroleum could cause the genocide of its inhabitants. 
They exhort that the exploitation of blocks 79 and 83 of the Sapara territory ceases. 
Various Amazon leaders went to United Nations facilities to denounce that China Andes Petroleum oil company will cause the genocide of the Sapara nation, located in the Ecuadorian Province of Pastaza. 
"Andes Petroleum could commit genocide against the Sapara People and the non-contacted peoples who are our neighbors (...) Ecuador must cease other forms of extractivism because they threaten our survival," said Manari Ushigua, president of the Sapara nation. 
In the same way, Gloria Ushiga, president of the Association of Women Sáparas of Ecuador - Ashiñwaka, demonstrated his concern towards a possible confrontation between his community and the company. 
"Andes Petroleum will stain his hands with the blood of my people if it is not left out of my sacred jungle," said Leadersa who has received death threats for defending the Amazon of oil exploitation. 
Letter to Chinese ambassador  On Monday, May 1, the indigenous leaders issued a letter addressed to Liu Jieyi, Chinese ambassador, urging the cancellation of the exploitation of blocks 79 and 83 of the Sápara territory. 
"Our survival depends on the health of our jungle, rivers, mountains and biodiversity, where our spirits are born, who as well as the spirit of mythical Chinese dragon, is the bond with our ancestors and Mother Earth," is read in the letter . 
They also denounce that the population was not consulted on the agreement signed between the oil company and Ecuador. 
"We have been direct witnesses of the environmental, social and cultural devastation that oil companies have generated in the Amazon (...) we oppose the extraction of resources in our territories through the exercise of our constitutional right to resistance." 
Sapara nation  In 2001, the United Nations Organization for Education, Science and Culture (UNESCO) recognized Sapara as a World Heritage Site. 
In addition, it was urged that the Ecuadorian state should take measures to protect their territory. 
In spite of this, in 2016, a contract was signed with Andes Petroleum, a consortium of Chinese companies National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) and China Petrochemical Corporation (Sinopec), for the exploration and exploitation of blocks 79 and 83, which They are almost all of the Sapara territory. 
Source: servindi.  . 
