The Confederation of the Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, provided a press conference today, Thursday, July, at its headquarters on the suspension of eviction in which at the beginning, Jorge Herrera, President, who "as Conaie we appreciate all National and international organizations for the support provided at the highest moment that crossed the indigenous movement by its headquarters, the people of Quito, to all and all who did everything possible to defend the headquarters sending us the backrest cards and many other actions in defense of the headquarters. 
But, the background problem has not yet been resolved. " 
He was present Guatemal, Vice President of ECUARNARI, and his Governing Council. 
The struggle of the indigenous movement is not only by its headquarters. 
We demand the delivery of the title of property. 
The Ministry of Economic and Social Inclusion, MIES, notifies the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador, Conaie, June 30, 2015, at the same time low process No. 04-PCA-2015 on June 29, 2015 in The one that "declares the suspension of the execution of the administrative act contained in the termination resolution of the NRO easy agreement. 
0196-2014 ". 
Jorge Herrera pointed out that "we will continue with the agenda of struggle of indigenous movement in unity with workers, peasants, students, housewives, doctors, teachers, among the exploited and exploited from the countryside and the city" because the background theme yet not it's solved. 
As Conaie, we demand: Derogree 016, the Water Law and its Regulation that directly affects the Community Administration; For the debate of land law, it should consider the 18 proposal points delivered to the National Assembly on March 5, 2015 during the Peoples' Summit in the city of Quito; that cessation of persecution and criminalization to social protest; respect for bilingual intercultural education; Free access to higher education; not to mining and oil exploitation in the territories of peoples and nationalities; terminate the firm of the TLC with the European Union; The Labor Justice Law is annulled; File to constitutional amendments. 
The decision made by the viceministra of the Mies, Dr. 
María Fernanda Maldonado Pesaronz, ratifies that the attempted eviction is a political issue, because with the suspension it demonstrates the non-emergency of having the property for a "rehabilitation center" as noted in the notification of completion of easy emitted by Mies December 2014. 
About the dialogue  "The government asks for dialogue after eight years, differentiating those in good faith and bad faith. 
We will not fall into the Government's game "Esclaria Jorge Herrera. 
About mobilizations  The mobilizations will not cease because they are preparatory for the national unemployment of the people that will be held in 2015. 
"In these mobilizations (July 2, 2015) they do not have the right of Lasso, Nebot, nor the right of Correa" clarified Jorge Herrera. 
The organizations of the indigenous movement, workers and social will be mobilized in the different cities of the country: Loja, Cuenca, Riobamba et al. 
The mobilizations are not to destabilize the government, they are to rectify the different policies that affect the Ecuadorian people. 
In Quito the concentration will be at 4:00 pm in the IESS insurance box. 
PDF documents:  Press Bulletin-Eviction Suspension Conaie Headquarters will not appease the struggle of the indigenous movement, ober ...  Suspension of eviction-resolution n ° 0004 of 29. 
06. 
2015   . 
