The first Community television of Ecuador, TV MicC, the indigenous and peasant movement of Cotopaxi-MICC, subsidiary of Ecuarunari and Conaie, performs community communication workshop with the facilitation of the recognized Colombian Professor, Omar Rincón. 
The activity is developed at the Canal facilities, located in the city of Latacunga. 
Leonidas Iza Salazar, president of the MICC, in his initial intervention socialized about the communication work that the organization performs with two looks: in and outward. 
He highlighted the importance of the field of communication for the strengthening of organizations. 
Luis Aimacaña, TV Manager Micc, thanked the presence of Omar Rincón. 
To say of Aimacaña, this type of activity contributes to the channel to strengthen and receive contributions from different spaces, as well as from the Academy. 
Daniel Gudiño, representative of Fes Ildis, said he felt grateful to the channel for opening the doors of the organization. 
He stressed that they perform several activities in coordination with the Conaie. 
Apawki Castro, Conaie's communication leader, said the event is part of a series of activities carried out by the organization under support from the German Foundation Fes ILDIS. 
Castro recalled that the debate on the communication approach within the indigenous movement is still under construction. 
He affirmed that there is an incidence within the space of the indigenous organization to which communication not only looks like a tool. 
Different communication spaces participate, as well as all MICC TV staff; Youth who make communication for the MICC; And other guests. 
The following stop is Amazon, where a similar event will be held with the Regional Organization Confédae and the Group of Communicators known as "The Digital Lancers", an activity that will be held on March 21 in Puyo in which other Community Communication Experiences will participate in the region. 
Saraguro will be the last stop of this day of community communication. 
The workshop will be carried out together with the Corpukis organization and other communication experiences. 
In this process, María Laura Agüero accompanies. 
She shares the experience of communication in Jujuy, Argentina. 
. 
