Unit and struggle are consolidated between region of conaie after massive and forceful expanded advice  Press release  Base-Puyo Union, October 23, 2016  Around 1000 base representatives and leaders of the three regional Conféniae, ECUARUNARI, CONAICE held yesterday morning, Saturday, October 22, the Expanded Council of Conaie who for the first time and in a historical way was held at Headquarters Conféniae, Base Union, Puyo. 
The first day allowed to strengthen the ties of unity of the indigenous movement by the defense of the territories and the autonomy of the organizations against divisionist attempts on the part of the Governments of Turn. 
Samples and concrete commitments of solidarity to the Confénia were given by the 30 organizations, federations and basic nationalities, as well as national leaders, Assemblymen, popular election authorities and so on. 
Assisted by Conféniae: FONAKISE, FEPCESH-S, FENOW, NAOKI, FONT, NAE, NAE, SHIWIAR, NASHE, FICA, FEPNAH-ZCH nationality. 
By ECUARUNARI: Fici, Kayambi Village, Kitu Kara, MICC, MIT, FECAB - BRUNARI, UPCCC, FOA, Korpukis, Zamaskijat, UOCE, and by La Conaice: The people Huancavilca; Together with the Government Councils of CONEIE, CONFENIAE, ECUARUNARI, CONAICE and the Special Presence of Leaders and Leaders of Coica, National and Provincial Coordination, Assemblymen and Authorities of Popular Election of the MUP Pachakutik and Fraternal Guests of Allied Organizations. 
The event emphasized the firm and inclaudicable position of territory defense among other issues that in the afternoon were delivered within the five programmatic axes of the 2017 Government Plan, the presidential candidate for the National Agreement for Change, Paco Moncayo. 
The firm position of the nationalities was held during this delivery with clear interventions by the leaders of regional and subsidiary federations. 
"Oil and mining are unnegociable issues and should be underground. 
We will stay vigilant, our fighting spirit will never stop, "said Marlon Vargas, president of Conféniae. 
Finally, the # 29Desaraguro and # 7papastazo along with criminalized by fighting delivered the order of Amnesty to political persecuffs. 
"We do not ask for any pardon, we demand our legitimate right as social fighters and on the forehead we reaffirm that jail is not going to silence us. 
We are workers, students, masons, peasants, indigenous and we are going to resist standing, never on their knees. " 
Communication Conféniae / Conaie  . 
