He gets up every day at 04:30 in the morning to prepare his workers' breakfast, then feeds his chickens, ducks and other small animals he has. 
At 07:00 breakfast next to her husband second Villacís, 56, and later goes to the "La Merced" market where he sells all his harvest: bananas, pears, oranges and barraganetes. 
Manuela Narcisa Pacheco 47-year-old Zapata is one of the inhabitants of the San Pablo community of Amali, Parish San José del Tambo, Cantón Chillanes, in the province of Bolivar, who resisted along with other comuneros the abuses suffered by the police force and Military that entered the community in 2012. 
They guarded the staff of the hydrotamque hydroelectric plant. 
A. 
For his defense of water, land and life has been processed 14 times under the charges of sabotage, violent acts and terrorism. 
This January 19, 2016, Manuela will be prosecuted by the alleged crime of organized terrorism, it has a penalty of 4 to 8 years, according to the previous Criminal Code. 
Manuela has been resisting in the community of St. Paul of Amali ten years, where the dam of the hydrotamque hydroelectric plant is built. 
A. 
, that in October of the year 2013 diverted the River Dulcepamba, bringing him dangerously approaching the community. 
In March of the previous year, during a river flood, an overflow occurring of the flow that caused the death of three people and the loss of houses, land and plages, including the farm where Manuela cultivated a large percentage of its products. 
However, being the sustenance of your home, it has been known to face this and other adversities to get ahead. 
Since 2005, the Community has maintained a constant resistance so that the Ecuadorian State and the company recognize their rights. 
However, this has not happened. 
On the contrary, the inhabitants of the area were assaulted several times by the police when they were opposed that the hydroelectric company enters the community. 
Several peasants were processed and their leaders persecuted. 
These persons processed were amnistinated by the Montecristi Constituent Assembly through resolutions of March and July 2008, which indicated: "Grant Amnesty General for the criminal proceedings listed in this resolution, linked to the actions of resistance and protest than citizens and citizens have carried out in defense of its communities and nature, compared to projects of exploitation of natural resources, and that therefore have been criminally prosecuted for common crimes typified in the Criminal Code. " 
Despite this recognition, since the year 2012 Manuela Pacheco and Manuel Trujillo, president of the San Pablo community of Amali, have been submitted to a new prosecution after they occurring clashes between the community and the company. 
For the aggressions suffered by the inhabitants of the community by the police forces, Manuela and Manuel submitted a complaint at the General Protecto of the Police. 
The police command appointed a commission to investigate the complaint against the greatest Vinicio Albán Moreta. 
On August 14, 2012, the day when the Commission would visit the Community, confrontations were generated between the police and member of the community in resistance. 
Of these facts is intended to take responsibility for the leaders Manuel Trujillo and Manuela Pacheco this time by the alleged crime of "organized terrorism" based on the police part prepared by the largest Roosevelt Vinicio Albán Moreta that points out that the two leaders along with 12 commuters attacked Four police officers and destroyed a police vehicle. 
On November 12, 2012, the fifth court of the criminal chillanes ordered preventive detention against Manuel and Manuela. 
Faced with this opinion, the two leaders were forced to pass into clandestinity since both are the main sustenance of their homes. 
In later days, through a massive mobilization of St. Paul de Amalí, it was achieved that these orders are revoked, however, the criminal process continued its course. 
As of this date, Manuel and Manuela should be presented before the Criminal Court every Monday as an alternative measure to preventive prison. 
For her, this legal process has been painful. 
"I feel a living corpse. 
I have 13 more days of freedom. " 
#Manuelapachecoreste  He was born on March 19, 1969, in the community of San Pablo de Amalí. 
All his life lived in San Pablo where he has his house and his land for the sowing and harvest of his products that generate economic income. 
Her husband suffers a disability and has serious health problems. 
Manuela is the sustenance of the family. 
Your life in the organization  She remembers that she linked her life to the organization 10 years ago when she "stuck, mistreated and run over the people of the community, as a human being could not stay without doing anything to see how the police and the military with his arrogance beat us." 
Before the injustice I joined next to the compadre Manuel Trujillo to defend Saint Paul. " 
"We defend the water because it is the father and mother of us, with the water we all do: we sow, we take, bathe, it serves us for everything." 
The water of the Dulcipemba River is used for the irrigation of the Earth and for human consumption through pipes and hoses, take the liquid to the community. 
Although it has been prosecuted several times, she considers that the fight is necessary. 
"We struggle to leave as an inheritance to the other people who must demand respect for life, water ... for fighting they wanted to buy us, they offered us money and get us out of the country, but we do not accept"  Training  He is a bachelor in accounting and struggle to respect the rights of the community. 
On January 19, judgment of judgment will be held in the Guaranda criminal guarantees court at 09:00. 
Taken from Inredh  . 
