The defense of nature and the right to a life worthy of the Community of St. Paul de Amalí, Parish San José del Tambo, Cantón Chillanes, Province Bolívar, has faced the police, military and authorities who have judicialized it by 42 occasions Under charges ranging from acts of violence, destruction of goods, sabotage, terrorism and rebellion. 
Manuel Cornelio Trujillo Secaira, leader of the San Pablo community of Amali, has faced these processes and now awaits the hearing of judgment by the alleged crime of "organized terrorism" that will be held against him on Tuesday, January 19, 2016, in The city of Guaranda. 
This crime has a penalty of 4 to 8 years, according to the previous Criminal Code. 
In St. Paul de Amali, the hydrotambo hydroelectric dam is currently constructed. 
A that diverted the flow of the Dulcepamba River approaching the flow towards the community. 
In March of the previous year during a river flood, an overflow of the flow and death of three people and the loss of houses, land and sowers occurred. 
Since 2005, the Community has maintained a constant resistance so that the Ecuadorian State and the company recognize their rights. 
However, this did not happen. 
On the contrary, the inhabitants of the area were assaulted several times by the police when they were opposed that the hydroelectric company enters the community. 
Several peasants were processed and their leaders persecuted. 
These persons processed were amnistinated by the Montecristi Constituent Assembly through resolutions of March and July 2008, which indicated: "Grant Amnesty General for the criminal proceedings listed in this resolution, linked to the actions of resistance and protest than citizens and citizens have carried out in defense of its communities and nature, compared to projects of exploitation of natural resources, and that therefore have been criminally prosecuted for common crimes typified in the Criminal Code. " 
Despite this recognition, since 2012 Manuel Trujillo and Manuela Pacheco have been submitted to a new prosecution after they occurring clashes between the community and the company during the year. 
For the aggressions suffered by the inhabitants of the community by the police forces, Manuela and Manuel submitted a complaint at the General Protecto of the Police. 
The police command appointed a commission to investigate the complaint against the greatest Vinicio Albán Moreta. 
On August 14, 2012, the day when the Commission would visit the Community, confrontations were generated between the police and member of the community in resistance. 
Of these facts is intended to take responsibility for the leaders Manuel Trujillo and Manuela Pacheco this time by the alleged crime of "organized terrorism" based on the police part prepared by the largest Roosevelt Vinicio Albán Moreta that points out that the two leaders along with 12 commuters attacked Four police officers and destroyed a police vehicle. 
On November 12, 2012, the fifth court of the criminal chillanes ordered preventive detention against Manuel and Manuela. 
Faced with this opinion, the two leaders were forced to pass into clandestinity since both are the main sustenance of their homes. 
In later days, through a massive mobilization of St. Paul de Amalí, it was achieved that such orders are revoked, however, the criminal process continued its course. 
As of this date, Manuel and Manuela should be presented before the Criminal Court every Monday as an alternative measure to preventive prison. 
The long persecution of Manuel Trujillo has been one of the axes for the elaboration of a report on the criminalization of human rights defenders that exists in the country and that became public on December 10, 2015 under the name "criminalization of the Social protest against extractivist projects in Ecuador "  Unfortunately, one day after the presentation of the report, the Guaranda criminal guarantee court pointed out the date for the judgment audience against Manuel Trujillo and Manuela Pacheco. 
#ManuelRutjilloresiste  He was born on January 1, 1965, in the Community of Sanabanán, in the Canton Chillanes. 
It is 51 years old and 23 of them has dedicated it to demand that the right to life be respected in a healthy environment. 
Recalls that in 1993, the Community began its struggle to improve the living conditions in Saint Paul of Amalí that is located near the Costa Region (Province Los Ríos Province) and next to the Dulcepamba River, which is part of the Babahoyo River sub-basin belonging to the Water system of the River Guayas. 
The community being close to the Costanera Region, while still belonging to the Sierra, and with the presence of a flowing river creates an ideal place for cultivation, farming the land, maintenance of farms, fishing and raising field birds . 
Manuel, like the other commuters, is also a farmer: cultivate the earth, sowing and cocoa, orange and bananas harvest, products that allow him to sustain the economy of the Trujillo family. 
Manuel has a wife with whom he had a daughter and a son, as well as two grandchildren and a daughter-in-law, who have always accompanied him in his struggle. 
After the flood of March 2015, which destroyed the properties of both Manuel and his son, all live together in the same house located very close to the Dulcepamba River that with the arrival of the child's phenomenon can grow as much or even more than In the winter of the previous year that caused human and material losses. 
Once the river's flood could take the humble property of the Trujillo family. 
Trying to precautionary the life of his family and other community has come once again to different entities such as the Ombudsman's Office, Ministry of Environment, Bolivar Prefecture, Bolivar Governance, Risk Secretariat and ultimately, they requested the past 7 of December 2015, through a precautionary measure, the construction of a retaining wall. 
The judge of the judicial unity of the Criminal Chillanes, Jorge Raúl Ávila, who met from the cause denied such measures indicating that the competent authorities had to be resolved. 
Manuel does not have much hope in Ecuadorian justice, but he hoped that this January 19, the judge acted independently and administers justice. 
Your life in the organization  Since young he was involved in the organization. 
He is current president of the San Pablo community of Amali. 
This position has for 14 years. 
He was president of the Peasant Insurance of San Vicente who houses 50 communities of the province of Bolívar, for 12 years. 
Five years was a provincial coordinator of peasant insurance and during his life he has been an auxiliary aid in the community for conflict resolution. 
Training  He is a Bachelor in Social Sciences. 
He has followed a series of courses and workshops on social organization. 
Several of their diplomas were lost in overflowing the Dulcepamba River in March 2015. 
On January 19, judgment of judgment will be held in the Guaranda criminal guarantees court at 09:00. 
We urge organizations, networks, collectives and national and international organizations that work for human rights and nature, as well as public institutions responsible for guaranteeing these rights, to continue to be informed about the case of Saint Paul of Amai and act decisively in defense of This community. 
Taken from Inredh  . 
