
On the eighth anniversary of the storming of Jericho Prison, Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat, the General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine sent a message from Gilboa prison calling for urgent action to save the sick prisoners suffering in israeli jails, and to recognize Palestinian prisoners as prisoners of war and prisoners for freedom on an international level, exposing the occupier.
Sa’adat said that the issue of medical negligence has only worsened, and many captives have been waiting for years for checkups, examinations and surgeries in hospitals, especially prisoners with disabilities, including those in the Ramle Prison Clinic. It is urgent to act to protect the lives of the prisoners held in the Ramle Prison Clinic, Sa’adat noted.
In press statements from the families of thoe kidnapped at Jericho prison, Abla Sa’adat, Palestinian women’s activist and the wife of Comrade Sa’adat, said, “As a wife, I suffer, and our family suffers, from the suffering of my husband. His absence leaves a deep psychological impact on us. Despite the fact that this arrest is not his first, we have missed him on many occasions, occasions of joy and those of grief. His son and his daughter have married during his captivity and he was not with them. His mother and my mother passed while he has been kept away,” she said, urging international pressure, including through the United Nations, for the release of Palestinian political prisoners.
The son of Fouad Shubaki directed a message to his father, saying, “I wish you health and wellness, and your quick release, and your return to your home, your family, your people, and your health. You are a hero and everything you have done is to defend the rights of your people…You are in our hearts and always with us.” He called for an external doctor to enter the prison to examine his father’s health, which is worsening daily.
The Palestinian struggler, Wafa Abu Ghoulmeh, the wife of Comrade Ahed Abu Ghoulmeh, leader of the Front’s branch in prison, said, “As a family, we send all of our regards to Ahed and every comrade in prison. We continue the struggle to obtain all of the rights for which Ahed has always struggled, and the freedom for which he sacrificed. We send our message of love and steadfastness and our deep wish that he is with us soon.” She noted that she was last allowed to visit her husband in 2009 and has not seen him since that time, and called for intensified efforts to secure the rights of prisoners, saying that those efforts are weak and do not live up to the level of the prisoners’ struggles and sacrifices.
 