
On the 96th anniversary of the Balfour Declaration, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine called for Britain to apologize for the Palestinian people. The Balfour Declaration, signed by British Foreign Secretary Alfred Balfour on November 2, 1917, pledged the establishment of a “national home for the Jewish people” in Palestine, at the expense of our Arab and Palestinian right to self-determination. The Front called upon the British state to take responsibility for the massive historical injustice and crime visited upon the Palestinian people by British colonialism.
The Front emphasized the political, legal and moral responsibility of British and European colonialism for the ongoing violation and brutal repression of Palestinian rights to our land and freedom, and noted that US imperialism, today the global sponsor of the Zionist project in Palestine, continues this ongoing rejection of Palestinian rights to return, self-determination, sovereignty and Jerusalem.
Further, the Front said the Nakba against the Palestinian people, Palestinian land, their country, their rights, and the displacement of the children of Palestine in refugee camps and diaspora all over the world, continuing to this day inside and outside Palestine, is the natural result of the fateful promise of the Balfour Declaration and the ongoing support for the occupation, settler colonialism and apartheid by the U.S. and its allies.
Their ongoing political, economic and security pressure against the struggle of the Palestinian people and their rights guaranteed by international law makes Britain and the U.S. partners in the continuing crimes against our people, disguised by so-called “peace negotiations” and “bilateral talks,” while providing abolute support to the occupation and ensuring its qualitatibe superiority in various fields. The Front said that leaving the entire path of Madrid, Oslo and negotiations is the only way forward for the Palestinian and Arab peoples toward freedom, democracy, social justice and human dignity, and demanded that the Palestinian officials immediately withdraw from negotiations and instead build a national democratic strategy for a political and social alternative. Resistance and unity are the only way to achieve freedom, self-determination and return.
 