
Comrade Marwan Abdel-Al, a leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and head of its Lebanon branch, concluded his successful tour of Brazil, which came at the invitation of the Landless Workers’ Movement.
Abdel-Al conveyed the greetings of the Front’s imprisoned General Secretary Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat, as well as its political bureau, central committee, and membership to Brazil, and its popular forces standing with Palestine. His tour included a number of meetings, events and political seminars over a period of 13 days in Brazil.
He participated in the Landless Workers Movement’s sixth congress, marking 30 years of the organization’s founding, met with the President of the Human Rights Committee of the Brazilian Senate on the violations of human rights by the occupation forces in Palestinian land, including the construction of settlements, land confiscation, the Judaization of Jerusalem, the assassination policy, mass imprisonment, detention, and violations of prisoners’ rights, the denial of the right of return, as well as addressing the situation of Palestinian refugees in Lebanon.
He participated in political seminars organized by Brazilian left-wing parties in Porto Alegre, Florianopolis, Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paolo, where he reviewed the current situation of the Palestinian cause and the threat of the Kerry plan and its attempt to liquidate the Palestinian cause through a so-called framework agreement. He also discussed the Oslo agreements and their impact on the Palestinian cause, stressing that it is the path of Oslo that has brought the Palestinian situation to where it is today, and that it is necessary to re-establish Palestinian national unity and re-build the PLO on the basis of clear Palestinian national principles.
He said that real peace will only be achieved by the exercise of inalienable Palestinian rights: to return, self-determination and the establishment of an independent Palestinian state on the entire land of Palestine.
Abdel-Al met with Palestinian communities in Brasilia, Sao Paolo, and Porto Alegre, and with political forces and parties in Brazil, including a meeting with the leadership of the Communist Party of Brazil and leaders of large trade union federations. He met with comrades of the Communist Party of Lebanon regarding the situation in Lebanon in Sao Paolo, and with leaders of the Landless Workers’ Movement as well as the Marxist trend in the Vrazilian Workers’ Party and the Revolutionary Communist Party of Brazil. He spoke with reporters from a number of websites and newspapers during his visit.
In all of his meetings, Comrade Abdel-Al emphasized the core of the Palestinian cause, focusing on the common struggle against imperialism and Zionism. He called on Brazilian forces to promote campaigns of solidarity with the Palestinian people, especially their existing and ongoing campaigns to isolate the Zionist entity which work to support the Palestinian people’s struggle to regain their rights. The struggle of the Palestinian people, Abdel-Al said, is that of all the forces struggling for freedom, socialism and justice, and that this will only come through the defeat of imperialism and the Zionist entity “Israel.”
 
 