
Comrade Abu Ahmad Fuad, Deputy General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, spoke at an event at the office of the PFLP in Rukn al-Din, Damascus, Syria among Front cadres.
He spoke about the latest developments in Palestine, the Arab world and the region. “The Front ruled out the formation of a national unity government of the Palestinian Authority; Mahmoud Abbas wants a government to form under the auspices of the Oslo program,” which is unacceptable, Fuad said. “Hamas will not be involved in this government but it is also pursuing for its own narrow reasons its own monopoly in the Gaza Strip,” said Fuad.
Furthermore, the Front will not participate in any such unity government, Fuad said. “The PFLP will not accept to participate in any government that recognizes Israel and engages in security coordination with the occupation.”
Both Fateh and Hamas have regional and international parties and relationships that exert control over their decisions, while the Palestine Liberation Organization, which should be the consolidated reference for the Palestinian people, particularly in the current crisis, is rent with corruption at all levels, said Fuad.
“Where are the PLO institutions in the reconstruction of Gaza? Where is the PLO for Palestinian refugees, especially in the camps of Syria? The PLO’s budget of $300 million monthly is absent entirely from the camps in Syria,” said Fuad. “It was announced that the PLO was fundraising huge amounts, but this did not reach the Palestinian people in the Yarmouk refugee camp. Where did all the money go?” Fuad asked, calling for transparency and full disclosure of the fate of those funds.
The Front entirely rejects negotiations with the occupier and security coordination, and “we will reject and denounce anything that impacts the unity of the Palestinian people and their land,” he said. “The Palestinian people are ready to rise up, but the lack of a unified Palestinian reference is undermining the Palestinian people,” said Fuad.
“Fateh and Hamas are seeking to form authorities, while our entire land is under occupation,” he said. “Gaza is not yet liberated, not yet independent; the occupation has control over the crossings, electricity, food, currency and fuel, despite the resistance and strength of the people. Neither Gaza nor the West Bank are independent of the occcupation. In the West Bank, taxes are processed via the occupation and Israeli products are everywhere in the markets. The occupied are being forced to provide revenue and finances to their occupier,” Fuad said, saluting the grassroots boycott campaigns being mobilized against the occupation.
In relation to Yarmouk camp, Fuad said that the decision of ISIS and Al-Nusra to enter the camp was not just their own, but also a political decision from the outside with a Turkish and Saudi role. “Palestine remains our compass and we will not distort the image of the Palestinian resistance fighter whose guns are pointed at the enemy. There is a concerted effort to undermine and marginalize the Palestinian cause.”
 