
At the end of thirty days of Zionist aggression on the Gaza Strip, making clear the bankruptcy of the Zionist enemy and its inability to confront the resistance, the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades emphasize the following:
First, since the escalating aggression against the masses of our people in the West Bank, and the fascist Zionists’ crime of killing and burning the boy, Mohammed Abu Khudeir, the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades have been committed to support our people in the West Bank with our resistance. Our brigades were the first to break the silence and target the cities and towns of the enemy with rockets and when the enemy announced its criminal war on Gaza, our units were already in the field prepared to confront the enemy and fire our rockets in the battle of loyalty to the martyrs.
Second, with the intensification of the assault on the valiant Gaza Strip, our orders were clear in the battlefield, to intensify our use of missiles and maintain a high level of confrontation through long days of fighting. These instructions were carried out with the highest professionalism by the brigades’ fighters in missile units, launching 350 rockets toward the bases of the enemy around the Gaza Strip and beyond, leading to the injury of occupation military forces.
Third, it was predicted earlier by the leadership of the brigades that the enemy, after failing to achieve its objectives through airstrikes, may engage in a ground invasion in some areas, and instructions were issued to raise the level of preparedness to the maximum degree and declare a state of mobilization in the ranks of all fighting units, including the use of anti-armor devices and explosives, which taught the enemy harsh lessons in direct confrontations. Fighters of the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades confronted occupation forces and military devices in the battles of Beit Hanoun, Juhr al-Deek, Qarara and near the Gaza International Airport.
Fourth, after the enemy has begun to feel the bitterness of defeat and is looking for exits from its political crisis in Gaza, we emphasize that the issue of the weapons of the resistance and the right of our people to struggle to restore every inch of their land is not subject to negotiation or debate. It is an inalienable right and a strategic choice. As for the political efforts being made in Cairo, we in the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades assure that we are part of the total national resistance and that what has inspired the resistance is the rights of our people that must be wrested from the enemy and we will not relinquish any of them.
Fifth, for our heroic people in Gaza, the families of the martyrs, the wounded, for our children who will struggle to the last breath, we emphasize the following: The time is irreversibly over when the enemy could strike and assault our people and remain free of injury and far from blows. The time of “security” claimed by the enemy state is over; today, fighting and confrontation will be throughout the land of Palestine. The enemy will not enjoy safety on any inch of the land it has stolen from our people while it assaults and attacks our people. The resistance is a shield for our people and a steel sword to strike the enemy. And to our brave people in the West Bank and Jerusalem and occupied Palestine ’48, to our heroes in prison, to our people in exile, we say that here, Gaza stands in the trench of resistance and is a castle of steadfastness, a model of the liberation war which will continue until the end. There is no neutralization of Gaza and it will not be neutralized. It will continue to stand as a base and move toward the liberation of our entire national soil.
Sixth, to the mercenary fascist enemy army, the killers of the state and the foreign Zionists, we emphasize that what they saw in Gaza is the tip of the iceberg and a drop in the ocean of the war of liberation which is inevitable for our people to root out Zionism from the land of Palestine. We urge Zionists to think carefully; there is no peace or stability here, to find that, return to where you came from to invade Palestine. Our people will defeat your entity and destroy this illusion of the indestructible Zionist power. Our people are fighting here, and death awaits your army from underground and from above, and the fighters of the resistance will bring you to destruction wherever you are on the land of Palestine. Gaza will remain a spark and a dagger in your heart.
Towards victory for our people and our brave resistance, and defeat for the occupiers
Glory to the martyrs, healing for the wounded heroes, freedom for our brave prisoners
Victory is inevitable.
August 5, 2014
 