
Press Statement of Comrade Abu Ahmad Fouad, Deputy General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine:
The criminal attacks against our people inside the occupied homeland ’48, the West Bank and Gaza, require us to raise the level of readiness of our people in the homeland and in exile and diaspora to confront the enemy and its Nazi-like attacks that aim to liquidate the Palestinian cause at a time when the Arab nation is concerned with internal and local struggles. The enemy has considered that this period is an appropriate time to implement its schemes.
It must be clear to all that the United States is not for a “Palestinian state” nor the resolutions of international legitimacy that emphasize the rights of our people. The United States and its puppets now clearly consider that suppressing, arresting and killing our people in the West Bank and Gaza is a natural right of the enemy.
More importantly, we are appalled to note that we have heard no condemnation or denunciation from the Arab League, while it is quick to act to take positions serving the United States but has issued not even a statement condemning the ongoing, permanent and continuous attacks against our people.
And more importantly for our people is the attitude of the political leadership of the great Palestinian nation, those who hold power in the Palestine Liberation Organization.
It is no longer possible for the Palestinian leadership to delay any longer to take the following clear political positions:
1. End all negotiations, secret and public, and do not return to them for any reason or justification.
2. End the security coordination with the enemy and declare it as a final political decision by the Executive Committee of the PLO and Abu Mazen.
3. Immediately call a meeting to fully activate the Palestine Liberation Organization
4. Demand a meeting of Arab Foreign Ministers
5. Call for an urgent meeting of the Security Council and the General Assembly to expose the crimes of the enemy in these international institutions.
6. Demand Arab regimes with relations with the enemy to end all forms of normalization, expel the ambassadors of the Zionist enemy from Arab capitals, and to withdraw their ambassadors and representatives from the Zionist entity.
7. If the leadership of the PLO is not able to bring together all factions without exception for a political decision to declare the launching of the uprising and Intifada, our great people are ready and waiting to take the leadership in theirhands and lead. We call on all factions to take a clear and explicit position to organize collective bodies to lead the resistance, to the brothers and sisters in Fateh, Hamas, Islamic Jihad, the Popular Front, the Democratic Front, and all militant factions.
8. The President must immediately instruct the Palestinian security services to protect our people in resisting the occupation and end any form of security coordination with the enemy
9. We expect the Egyptian leadership to loudly denounce and act against the crimes of the Zionist enemy. Egypt is capable of assembling the Arab regimes to confront the crimes of the enemy…the immediate response of the Egyptian government to the crimes of the enemy should be to open the Rafah crossing fully and immediately to our people in Gaza.
Intifada is our choice.
The strategic path of armed resistance.
All greetings and salutes to the great heroes and martyrs of our people.
 
 