
Address by Dr. George Habash to the Comrades, the Palestinian people, and the Arab masses on the occasion of the assassination of the general secretary of the PFLP, Abu Ali Mustafa
To the Palestinian people…To the Arab masses…
Today I received with great sadness the news about the assassination of the leader Abu Ali Mustafa by Sharon and his Zionist gang.  This heinous crime that has robbed us of our long-standing comrade for over half a century, reaffirms that the Zionist enemy is determined to annihilate the leaders of our revolution and its cadres in order to force us to surrender.
This enemy has apparently not learned the lessons of history.  The enemy has not yet learned that the Palestinian people, who have offered hundreds of leaders and thousands of fighters, will not kneel in surrender.  On the contrary, we will persevere in the struggle no matter how long it takes to regain our rights and the rights of our nation.  We will remain steadfast in the struggle until the Zionist, colonialist project is defeated.
On this day we remember Ghassan Kanafani, Guevara Gaza, Al Amassi, Abu Jihad, Abu Iyad, Faisal Husseini; and before them we remember Al-Qassam and Abd al-Qader Al-Husseini, and countless others who have fallen in the battle for Palestine.Â Their sacrifice and their memory motivates us to persevere.
As I convey to our people and to the Arab Nation the loss of Abu Ali Mustafa whose determination, courage, and strength distinguished him over so many years, I assure you that the shedding of his blood will not be in vain. His comrades and his people will inhale the strength of his soul and become stronger and more determined to continue the struggle for freedom and independence.
We are proud to remember that until his death, Abu Ali Mustafa proclaimed loudly and clearly that the foul war of Sharon will not frighten us.Â Neither will it subdue us or force us to deviate the path of revolution — the path to freedom and victory.
Our people, who have lost a teacher and a leader, know that Abu Ali Mustafa was an exceptional man who had the charism of a great leader. Our people will continue to learn from him and from his spirit of resistance — his patience, his determination, his strong will to force out the occupier and fulfill the dream of the right to return and the establishment of an independent, sovereign Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital.
On this sad and painful occasion, I turn to all brave comrades of the PFLP and all members of the Palestinian revolution at home and abroad: I call on them to remain faithful, not only to Abu Ali Mustafa but also to all those who have sacrificed their blood for the sake of Palestine and for the Arab Cause. We promise you, dear Abu Ali, that the Popular Front that you helped to establish on the foundation of a spirit of resistance will continue to march on the same road, no matter how long and treacherous it is, no matter how much we will have to sacrifice.  The destructive tactics of the enemy will never kill our steadfastness or our will to resist.
27 August 2001
 