
The Progressive Student Labor Action Front at An-Najah University in Nablus denounced security forces’ attacks on a student protest, and demanded that they be held accountable. Furthermore, the students demanded that U.S. officials and their delegations be considered unwelcome at the university, with its lengthy and distinguished history of struggle, while the U.S. continues its participation in the war crimes of the occupier against the Palestinian people.
On Sunday, the Front called for all student organizations and blocs to join a protest across from the main campus gate, across from the Korean Institute, on Monday, September 29, to protest the visit of the U.S. Consul to the university.
The PSLAF and many student political blocs joined in the protest, raising Palestinian flags, and signs and banners condemning the visit of the U.S. Consul while the United States provides massive military, economic and political support to the occupier and its war crimes.
The student protesters were greeted by a large number of university security guards and Palestinian Authority police stationed in the area, demanding that the students end their protest and threatening them with suspension from the university. At 1:00 pm on Monday, after a half-hour of protesting outside the university, the protesters decided to march to the hall at the Korean Institute where the U.S. consul was attending an event, and demand that he leave the university. University security blocked the student protesters’ attempts to enter the Institute, and the protesters remained outside the walls of the university, carrying out their protest and waiting for the exit of the U.S. consul.
Once the U.S. Consul and his delegation exited the university, the student protesters escalated their chants and calls, marching alongside the Consul and demanding that the Consul leave the area, denouncing the U.S. responsibility for occupation war crimes. University security attacked the student protesters, beating and bruising students and causing injuries. In addition, security forces took their student identification cards, forced them to leave campus, and threatened them with expulsion from the university.
Security forces not only attacked student demonstrators but also reporters and photographers, confiscating the camera of one reporter and deleting some images. On Tuesday, September 30, student organizations organized a meeting to follow up on these events and organize a protest against the suppression of student organizing and protest on campus. Student ID cards were again taken and four students were threatened with expulsion from the university.
Protesters on Tuesday again raised slogans and banners against the presence of the U.S. consul at An-Najah university and against the attacks of the security against students, whether on campus or off campus.
The Progressive Student Labor Action Front denounces the brutal actions of the security forces who attacked students and journalists and demands those responsible be held accountable with real consequences, and that all charges and proceedings against any students threatened with punishment or expulsion be immediately cancelled. Furthermore, the Front reiterates that the key issue is rejecting the presence of the U.S. imperialist consul and delegation on the grounds of An-Najah university, the University of Martyrs; they are not welcome as they are complicit in the ongoing crimes of the occupier.
 