
Our great Palestinian people are engaged in a heroic and historic confrontation against the Zionist war machine. The Palestinian people in Gaza have maintained a high level of steadfastness and a strong resistance; they have also suffered massive destruction: of homes, of infrastructure, of schools, of hospitals. Our people have been displaced once again, when over 80% of Palestinians in Gaza are already refugees, struggling to return to their homes and lands.
In order to support the steadfastness of the Palestinian people in Gaza, it is critical to organize activities, provide aid, and provide resources to displaced people. But what is needed is to rebuild homes, community organizations and institutions, and provide long-term support to the wounded,to the displaced, and to the families of those who have been slain by the shelling, bombing and missiles of the occupation state.
The Zionist aggression on Gaza has taken nearly 2,000 Palestinian lives, wounded over 10,000, destroyed thousands of homes and displaced hundreds of thousands. Gaza’s power plant has been bombarded, along with schools, hospitals and community institutions.
The support of international friends and comrades of the Palestinian people is critical because your support strengthens the steadfastness of our people. That support enables our people to meet their basic needs despite the best attempts of the occupier to deny their rights – and from there, to struggle on the road to liberation and return.
Furthermore, that support is unconditional and expressed with true solidarity, unlike the international aid from imperialist powers and large NGOs, which is often conditioned on depoliticizing the Palestinian cause and redefining the national liberation struggle as a simple humanitarian question. International solidarity, on the other hand, supports our people to maintain their path forward, to liberate our land and people, to a free Palestine.
We know that many of our international friends, comrades and supporters wish to support our people. We welcome your support, solidarity and comradeship. Please contact us using the form below or email us at pflp.english@yandex.com if you would like to contact us regarding support for the Palestinian people.










Your Name (required)
 
Your Email (required)
 
Additional Message (details regarding donation, etc.)
 


 