
Many Left, anti-racist, anti-war and anti-imperialist organizations and parties in Greece have responded to the call of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine to protest the visit of Benjamin Netanyahu and demand his expulsion from Greece. We are re-publishing the calls from these organizations to the demonstrations, which will take place on Thursday, June 15 at 7:00 pm: in Athens, at the Zionist Embassy and in Thessaloniki, at the Venizelos Statue. 
Netanyahu not welcome in Greece


The Greece-Cyprus-Israel summit will take place in Thessaloniki, following Tsipra’s invitation to the President of the Republic of Cyprus Anastasiades and the prime minister of the racist Israeli state, Netanyahu. This summit is being held while the clouds of war are shaking and are threatening our country, as western imperialism destroys entire countries in our region.
The zionist Israeli state is also one of the protagonists in Trump’s war campaign against Iran and anyone else blocking US plans in the region. With the head of this state-terrorist, the Tsipras-Kammenos government allies, further deepening an adventurous choice that engulfs our country and our people in major adventures and jeopardizes Greece’s real interests.
The government of the semi-colonial memorandum regime, after exposing the last remnants of national independence and sovereignty, transformed into a derision of enemies and «friends,» is now attempting to sell the even greater attachment to the US-NATO-Israel axis as the only protection shield against Turkey’s aggression . But the Greek and the Cypriot people have been taught in the most painful way that the least that such «allies» are interested in is to provide a shield of protection. Even more when they have the current managers, whom no one respects nor counts on, since they have shown unprecedented compliance.
Tsipras and Anastasiadis are ambitious to turn Greece and Cyprus into a transit center for the transfer to Europe of the natural gas that the Israeli occupation steals from the Palestinians. We did not expect from «leaders» who did not hesitate to sell out the national wealth and the sovereignty of their country to become aware when an other people is victim of occupation and theft … Peoples of Greece and Cyprus, on the other hand, have every reason to oppose this shameful co-operation, which also legitimizes the plundering of the natural resources of occupied Cyprus by Ankara, and semi-colonial Greece from its «EU-partners». Moreover, it downgrades the remains of the Greek-Arab friendship.
Responding to the call of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), we declare that the head of the occupying state of Netanyahu is undesirable in our country. Besides, if the so-called «international legitimacy» really worked, this person should be in prison, being himself personally a war criminal.
We call on people who want justice and peace in our region to protest tomorrow THURSDAY 15/6 at 7:00 pm. In THESSALONIKI (Statue of Venizelos) and ATHENS (Israeli Embassy).
Free people in free homelands!
June 14, 2017
Communist Organization of Greece (KOE)
web: www.koel.gr | facebook: KOEGreece


 