
Communique issued by the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades, the military wing of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
To the masses of our people in Gaza and the West Bank, resisting with pride; to the strugglers in the inside, in Palestine ’48; to our people who march over hot coals in Jerusalem; to the strugglers of return in exile and diaspora…
On the 25th day, the fascist enemy continues its war of extermination perpetuated against Gaza, and yet the resistance continues in Gaza, striking the occupier in the eye, smashing its pride and hitting its cowardly army…With the intensification of the aggression and the attacks of the Zionist murderers shedding the blood of our people, children, women and men, the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades emphasize:
First: The Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades and its fighters, the children of our people, continue to participate day and night in fighting the fascist enemy and striking hordes of the mercenary army and the settlers in the settlements around the Gaza Strip, on the front lines and on the borders.
Second: The enemy’s army has reached the depths of moral depravity, targeting children and women in homes, schools, hospitals, targeting UNRWA shelters and journalists. The resistance has already achieved a great victory of morality that will be remembered in history with glory and pride, in the short-term and the long-term. The heroic resistance is fighting and striking significant blows despite its scarce resources and the massive war machine of the enemy; while fighting one of the strongest armies in the world, backed to the utmost by US imperialism, its soldiers and its settlers, the resistance has been valiant, steadfast, courageous and ethical.
Third: In light of the Zionist war criminals’ threats to re-occupy the Gaza Strip to market themselves, we assure our brave people that the enemy, with all of its armaments, is unable to overcome the strength of our people, enter or hold the sector. In every inch of Gaza, the enemy army will find death and meet our fighters. All of the resistance fighters are waiting to confront these soldiers and defeat them or capture them in order to free our prisoners. The army of the enemy state will emerge from Gaza broken and its prestige shattered completely. Urban warfare on the streets will mean victory for us as it has been in ground combat on the borders of Gaza. Our resistance can break their war machine as did the Vietnamese people resisting the U.S.
Fourth: The Zionist enemy in political, military and media arenas, despite a sea of lies and deceit that seek to strengthen their internal front being worn down by the resistance in the battlefield, has no credibility and continues to lie, for example about the events of Tuesday, July 29 at 4:40, at Kerem Abu Salem east of Rafah, wherte the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades and AbdelQader al-Husseini Brigades struck the area, rocket sirens blared, and a helicopter came to the site to evacuate the occupation forces, which has been covered up in their media.
Fifth: After the political movement of regional and international powers of the world seeking to achieve calm, called a humanitarian ceasefire or otherwise, we instead call in the name of humanity to ask these powers, where is your humanity? You are watching children’s blood shed in the streets of Gaza. The real human action is to end your political and military support of the enemy entity. There is no humanity from states like the U.S. that are re-arming the occupier as they pretend to seek ceasefire or calm. The Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades refuse to equate the oppressed and the victim with the occupier, refuses to equate our people’s resistance movement with the aggression of the Zionist forces and their ongoing and historical crimes against our people and their rights and our nation. We will not give any calm to the enemy that enables him to enjoy living on our land while our people are oppressed. If Zionists want calm, they can return to the countries they have come from to occupy our land and this will indeed lead to peace and tranquility in the region.
Sixth: On behalf of our fighters and all of the resistance units and every part of the resistance, we salute our people in Gaza and every mother who has lost her child, every father who is bereaved, every wife or husband who has lost their partner. We vow to continue the resistance until liberation. The promise of victory is near and you will soon hear from our resistance when they return from the front lines to recount their clashes with the enemy soldiers, face-to-face in the batttlefield, and their destruction of enemy tanks.
No voice is louder than the voice of resistance and intifada
Glory to the martyrs, speedy recovery to the wounded heroes, freedom for our brave prisoners
Victory to our people and their heroic resistance and defeat for the occupiers.
Victory is inevitable
Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades
30 July 2014
 