
Comrade Omar Nayef Zayed was buried on Friday, June 10, surrounded by his comrades, family, and friends in his home in exile in Sofia, Bulgaria, while in Gaza and Jenin, in occupied Palestine, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine held symbolic funerals for the martyr.
Nayef Zayed was found dead on February 26 in the Palestinian Embassy in Sofia, where he had taken refuge for over 70 days from the attempts of the Zionist state to demand his extradition from Bulgaria, where he had lived for 22 years since his escape from occupation prisons in 1990. He was imprisoned for involvement in a resistance operation that targeted an extremist settler in Jerusalem in 1986 and imprisoned for four years; he launched a hunger strike and after 40 days, escaped the hospital, prison, and Palestine, yet continuing his involvement in the struggle and deep ties to his homeland first, from around the Arab world and then from Bulgaria.
While he was in the embassy, he was threatened from all sides – the Zionist state demanding to capture him; the Bulgarian government receptive to the Zionist demands; and the Palestinian Authority embassy attempting to push him to leave the embassy and undermining his struggle against extradition and imprisonment. The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine holds the Zionist state and its security agencies as well as the Palestinian Authority and its embassy fully responsible for the killing of the comrade, as well as the Bulgarian government for its willingness to arrest and turn over Omar to the occupiers and torturers, forcing him to seek refuge.
Hundreds of members of the Palestinian and Arab communities in Sofia, representatives of Arab embassies in Bulgaria, cadres and supporters of the PFLP, and the family and friends of the martyr participated in the mass funeral.
Speaking from Sofia, Comrade Mohammed Khatib said that “the occupation and the authority, represented by the political and security apparatus, bear full responsibility for the crime against Comrade Omar Nayef Zayed…Those who believe the issue of Omar Nayef Zayed is closed must realize that it is open today, with his funeral in Palestine and in exile. The issue of Omar Nayef Zayed is a Palestinian national issue,” saluting the entire Palestinian people, especially those in Jenin, in Gaza, in the diaspora and in the refugee camps, remembering the martyr.
Kashef Nayef Zayed, the brother of the martyr, spoke at the event, highlighting that “Omar loved his homeland, refused to bend to the executioner….grabbed his freedom from the clutches of the occupiers, breaking blockades and sieges. We all pledge to return from exile, no matter how long, carrying the banner of our people and the resistance….He had a free heart, a spirit of resistance, and a Palestinian will of steadfastness and struggle – for a constant dream of return and liberation.”
He said that those responsible for the death of Omar must be brought before a popular revolutionary court and held accountable for their crimes.
Comrade Leila Khaled, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, spoke at the funeral on behalf of the Front, pledging that “The Front’s history bears witness to the fact that it will not hesitate to hold accountable those involved in every conspiracy and action against Omar. We always greet the occupier with resistance. This is our relationship to the occupier, no negotiations, no begging, no security coordination and conspiracies against our freedom fighters.”
She saluted Omar’s family, his wife Rania and children Mohammed, Diana and Ahmad, as well as his brothers and mother in Palestine, saying that the case of their son will never be forgotten and will always be pursued. “We are fighting for Palestine, all of Palestine, from the river to the sea, despite any so-called agreements from conspirators with the enemy who continue their futile negotiations…Our people will struggle until victory, until liberation and return to Palestine.”
The Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades,the armed wing of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, emphasized that they would do everything to implement revolutionary justice against those responsible for the killing of Omar Nayef Zayed, swearing that the Zionists and their agents who facilitated this crime will “be brought before a revolutionary court” and that Omar’s blood would be avenged.
In Jenin, large crowds participated in the symbolic funeral organized by the PFLP and the family of the martyr in his hometown, which proceeded from the central mosque in Jenin through its streets to the cemetery, led by strugglers of the Front carrying a symbolic coffin for Nayef Zayed. Participants chanted, demanding revenge against those responsible for the killing of Omar and resistance to the occupation.
Comrade Jaafar Abu Salah spoke at the symbolic funeral, pledging that the Front would remain on the path of the martyr: of struggle and resistance until return and liberation. He pledged that the Front will uphold its promise to make those responsible for the death of Omar accountable.
Sheikh Khader Adnan emphasized that the Palestinian people, despite assassination of leaders like Omar Nayef Zayed, would continue their struggle until freedom, emphasizing that despite all forms of oppression and terror, the resistance will continue.
Alaa al-Saadi of Fateh said that Fateh would remain on the path of resistance with its weapons to fight the occupier on the path of the martyrs of Palestine and the Palestinian people.
In Gaza City, the PFLP organized a march and mock funeral for the martyr, as crowds filled the street carrying Palestinian flags and PFLP banners, alongside posters and slogans for Nayef Zayed. Leaders, cadres, members and supporters of the Front marched, chanting for revenge and justice for Omar Nayef Zayed and the liberation of Palestine.
Comrade Allam Kaabi, member of the Central Committee, spoke at the symbolic funeral, saying that “today, we bid farewell to an icon of Palestine that will remain immortal in our memory. His experience of struggle won him a permanent place of glory in our history and in the hearts of all those who knew and loved him. He will continue, despite his martyrdom, to be a thorn in the side of the enemy and every collaborator.” He accused the Zionist occupation of direct responsibility for his death, accompanied by collaborators and agents. He also denounced the Bulgarian authorities’ silence and attempts to suppress and hide the truth about Nayef Zayed’s death.
He demanded the full release of all evidence in the case held by Palestinian and Bulgarian authorities, and reiterated the call to dismiss Foreign Minister Riyad al-Malki, Ambassador Ahmad al-Madhbouh, and to hold them accountable. He further called for full investigation of corruption in Palestinian embassies and public institutions, saying that the people would fight relentlessly to reclaim their institutions.
“The path to honor the martyr Omar Nayef Zayed and all of the martyrs, is to escalate the intifada and the resistance against the Zionist occupation,” said Kaabi.
Khaled al-Batsh of the Islamic Jihad emphasized that the killing of Omar is a crime against the Palestinian people as a whole, comparing it to the assassination of Fathi Shiqaqi in Malta, Khalil al-Wazir in Tunisia, and Abu Ali Mustafa in Ramallah.
 