
Comrade Abdul-Alim Da’na, leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, denounced the monopolistic control of Mahmoud Abbas in the Palestine Liberation Organization, noting that his “dictatorial” leadership has ignored all of the decisions of the PLO’s Central Council and Executive Committee, first and foremost to stop security coordination with the occupation.
He denounced Abbas’ removal of Tayseer Qubaa from the vice presidency of the PNC, allegedly due to “health” concerns. Da’na said that Abbas is attempting to stop the rising intifada, saying that he bears full responsibility for the refusal to implement key decisions for the Palestinian cause, including obstructing the implementation of the provisional leadership framework and failing to actively pursuing legal complaints against the occupation in a variety of international forums.
He also denounced the involvement of the Palestinian Authority in secret meetings and negotiations with Israel. “Abbas practiced a fully conscious deception while being aware of the facts of the occupation,” sid Da’na, calling for his “immediate departure from the political scene.”
Da’na also denounced the practices of Palestinian embassies around the world, in failing to serve the Palestinian people and focusing on money and relations with the Authority.
In contrast, Da’na saluted the resilience and strength of the Palestinian people. Commenting on the massive funeral rally in Al-Khalil for the martyrs whose bodies had been held hostage by the occupation, Da’na said that “the masses of Al-Khalil, young and old, men and women, and children, came to honor the martyrs imprisoned in the morgues of the occupation.”
He saluted the young fighters who challenge Israeli soldiers and settlers, saying they are “people of true courage who fight although occupation soldiers and settlers are heavily armed. They are our compass towards liberation.”
Da’na, 66 years old, has spent 17 years in Israeli occupation prisons and was last released from administrative detention without charge or trial in early 2015. His son Bashar has been held in administrative detention without charge or trial for almost two years.
 