
Despite the announcement of various ceasefire periods, the Zionist enemy has not once stopped its attacks against the Palestinian people everywhere, its ongoing siege, its threats, and its bombings, said Comrade Abu Ahmad Fouad, Deputy General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, said in an interview with Palestine Today TV on August 19. “Pressure is being exerted to force us to compromise, but we will not give up.”
“Every shell fired by the occupation must be answered by shells and rockets; all factions of the resistance must maintain our unified operations room and coordinated operations…responding to the crimes of the enemy…we have the ability for the resistance to meet this challenge,” said Fouad.
In relation to the ongoing negotiations in Cairo, Fouad said that “the delegation is attempting, in light of the current situation in the Gaza Strip, the destruction, murder and crimes committed by the enemy, to reach a solution to provide some of the requirements of the people of the Strip, but all of our people, the resistance and the Palestinian people broadly refuse to provide concessions on these basic rights; they demand to implement the terms of the resistance.”
Fouad noted that the Front insists that the terms of the resistance must remain one package, first and foremost the airport and seaport and the complete lifting of the siege on Gaza. “Our brothers in the Palestinian delegation presented ideas for a solution to the impasse, focusing on opening the crossings, the airport and the seaport. They realized at the same time that the Zionist entity is intransigent in regard to the airport and the seaport, as well as the Palestinian prisoners who have been re-arrested, which is a very important issue. They have insisted on postponing these topics for a month, and in our opinion, this postponement will go on and on, because the enemy has shown that it does not commit to any agreements, even under international auspices.”
“There is only one option for the Palestinian delegation if its terms are not approved, which is to end this avenue and leave the matter to the resistance and continue to struggle. We cannot accept the Zionist entity imposing its crimes upon our people. We have the capacity to continue the resistance and force the enemy to accept our terms in the field of confrontation, and all resistance forces must prepare to direct substantial blows against the enemy,” Fouad said.
He noted the role of the U.S., saying that U.S. empire is behind all of the crimes and the Zionist intransigence. “Everyone knows that the United States is responsible for all of the crimes plaguing the Arab nation,” said Fouad. He urged Palestinian national unity and joining the Rome Statute and the International Criminal Court to prosecute the Zionist entity for its crimes against our people.
He saluted the fighters of the resistance, “In the battlefield, we will respond, fight back and prove once more that our capacities and our resistance wings are ready to strike serious blows against the invading settlers and soldiers.”
 