
Comrade Leila Khaled, member of the Political Bureau of the PFLP, spoke at the march on December 6, 2012, marking the 45th anniversary of the Front. She saluted the martyrs of the Palestinian revolution of Gaza and the martyrs of the Front, including Abu Ali Mustafa, the founder Dr. George Habash, Wadih Haddad, and greeted the prisoners led by Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat, General Secretary of the Front.
Khaled is visiting Gaza in order to participate in the 45th anniversary celebrations, saluting the martyrs of Palestine and the people of Gaza for their legendary steadfastness in the recent eight-day aggression. She said that the resistance proved during the aggression that it is robust on the ground, with popular support, and that despite the blockade of land, sea and air, the resistance proved that the will of our people and our fighters is stronger than all of the weaponry manufactured by imperialism and its customers in the world. She saluted Ahmad Sa’adat in the occupation prisons, and said that the resistance would not rest until he was freed from behind the prison bars. She also commended the unity of the resistance on the battlefield during the aggression and noted that the achievements of the resistance buoyed the spirit of Palestinians in all refugee camps, inside the homeland, and in diaspora, seeking their imminent return to their land. She emphasized that the Palestinian people must pressure the leadership to build unity and a resistance economy, as the resistance economy is a key factor to support steadfastness in the Palestinian street. Khaled noted that this resistance economy is a key factor for the liberation of Palestine, along with internal democracy and national unity, saying that those who have resisted siege also want to live freely and with dignity, calling for a clear policy to struggle against poverty.
She noted that the recent vote at the United Nations is a diplomatic achievement, but that it comes from an institution that bears responsibility for the wrongs visited upon the Palestinian people since 1947, and that despite UN votes, there is no Palestinian state, Zionist aggression continues and settlement building is escalating. She demanded that Arab countries re-formulate their relations in order to support the higher interests of the Palestinian people, which is not merely for Arab foreign ministers to visit Gaza and take photos with our people and the rubble of buildings. She added that the Palestinian people call upon all Arab countries to sever all relations with the Zionist enemy, abolish political agreements and not merely summon ambassadors of the occupation state. It must be isolated regionally and internationally. She praised the international movements who acted to defend the Palestinian people and break the siege on Gaza, greeting those who sacrificed for the Palestinian cause.
[nggallery id=28]
 