
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine in Dheisheh refugee camp organized a march on the occasion of the anniversary of the October 17 operation on Wednesday evening, October 17. The march commemorated the 11th anniversary of the assassination of Zionist racist Tourism Minister Rehavam Ze’evi by a military cell of the PFLP, in response to the occupation army’s assassination of the then-General Secretary of the Front, Abu Ali Mustafa, in his Ramallah office.
Dozens of masked activists marched in the streets wearing red, to the main street entrance to the camp. The participants carried Palestinian flags and pictures of Palestinian leaders, including Abu Ali Mustafa, imprisoned PFLP General Secretary Ahmad Sa’adat, and PFLP founder George Habash. They also carried posters of the members of the military cell that conducted the operation, comrades Ahed Abu Ghoulmeh, Majdi Rimawi, Hamdi Qur’an, Basil al-Asmar and Mohammed Rimawi, all serving life sentences in Israeli jails.
The PFLP in Khan Younis also organized activities to mark the annivesary of the October 17 operation, including a media campaign and a meeting with middle and high school students about the meaning of the heroic operation, and its political and national context. The presenters discussed the operation as a part of Palestinian actions to claim and restore dignity of the people as an integral part of the dignity and freedom of the nation.
The Front distributed posters and stickers commemorating the operation and its heroes within schools in the governorate, as well as screening a documentary film on the operation, and will continue the campaign in coming days with film screenings, documentary showings and poetry readings.
A commemoration also took place in Jabalya, which opened with the Palestinian national anthem and a minute of silence for the martyrs. Speeches at the event reviewed the political, organizational and intellectual implications of the decision to undertake the October 17 operation, noting that the Front has been throughout history on a course of response and deterrence to the occupation and imperialism. They focused on the importance of a political decision and the political will to struggle for our people.
Comrade Abu Yahya Suleiman spoke about the life and qualities of Comrade Abu Ali Mustafa, the Front’s general secretary whose assassination was responded to with the October 17 operation. He saluted his leadership qualities, his political vision and intellectual rigor, saying that we must uphold morality and revolutionary conviction as a model to lead our people to victory. He also asked the members of the Front to play an important role in challenging and breaking the national division. The end of the event included a tribute to our people and prisoners, at the forefront General Secretary Ahmad Sa’adat and his comrades, the heroes of October 17, and all of the martyrs of the Front and the people, before closing with debkeh and songs.
The Front in northern Lebanon held a commemoration of October 17 at Burj al-Shamali camp east of Tyre, attended by representatives of Lebanese and Palestinian political parties, associations, and cultural organizations.
Comrade Samir Lubani spoke at the event, saying that unity and the escalation of armed resistance are the mechanisms to restore the correct direction of the Palestinian stuggle and rebuild hope in the liberation of Palestine. He talked about the discussions within the Front and its leadership, who were unanimous on the need to respond to the murder of Abu Ali Mustafa in an exceptional way, targeting one of the primary symbols of Zionist extremis, racism, and one of the members of the ministerial Zionist security mini-cabinet, emphasizing the importance of the political will to take action.
He noted that the Zionist intelligence services, despite their pursuit, did not succeed in capturing the members of the group who carried out the operation; it was the crime of some of the Palestinian Authority that arrested Ahed, Hamdi, Majdi, Basil and their leader Ahmad Sa’adat through trickery and imprisoned them until their kidnapping by the occupation forces, where they now languish in the jails of the occupation.
He added that Palestinians in Lebanon reject all forms of intimidation and will always hold firm to our rights and reject all forms of resettlement until victory and the return of our people to their land and homes from which they were uprooted in 1948 and that we will struggle in Lebanon for decent human lives until achieving our return and liberation.
The evening closed with solidarity statements from Lebanese and Palestinian organizations.
 
 