
Comrade Ghazi Sourani, of the Cultural Department of the PFLP, saluted the Front on its 45th anniversary, saying that it continues to inspire tens of thousands of progressive and leftist activists in Palestine and throughout the Arab homeland. Sourani recalled martyrs and leaders of the Front, including Dr. George Habash, Abu Ali Mustafa, Ghassan Kanafani, Wadie Haddad, Ahmad Sa’adat, and all of the Palestinian and Arab martyrs, wounded and prisoners of the national liberation movement. The story of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine is an epic story of the Palestinian revolution, said Sourani. “The Front continues to march on in service to the cause and the Palestinian, Arab and international struggle, rejecting the official dominance of the Palestinian and Arab ruliing class…The Front shall continue to build a revolutionary vanguard in the march of the national liberation movement.” Sourani said that the Front consciously seeks to renew and develop its Marxist ideology, scientific approach, and progressive and secular socialist vision that never seeks to be neutral in the struggle between oppressed and oppressor, justice and injustice. Sourani said that the Front will always be on the side of the oppressed, the poor, the landless and the disposessed, support the oppressed masses struggling for freedom, emancipation and revolution, marching towards victory in spite of all forces or attacks.
The PFLP has included from its inception to the present day, generations of fighters, grandfathers and grandmothers, fathers, mothers and children from the working classes, popular classes and the poor, and successive generations continue to carry the banner of freedom, the flag of Palestine and of our liberation, the banner of the workers, and the toilers and revolutionary intellectuals, said Sourani. For 45 years, the Front has struggled to expel the occupier and achieve liberation, self-detemination and the right of return, of which achieving the victory of workers and peasants is part and parcel. Sourani said that the day will soon come to truly revive the role of the Palestinian revolutionary left in order to secure the future of the popular classes and all oppressed people, on the road to struggle, the continuing Arab Palestinian march for liberation, self-determination, return, independence and our capital, Jerusalem, as part of the path toward recovering our full rights and achieving our strategic goal of removing the Zionist entity and establishing a democratic Palestine as part of a unified socialist Arab society, which will resolve the so-called “Jewish question” through inclusion and liberation.
 
 