
All of the proposed international “initiatives” for settlement in Palestine are a “waste of time,” said freed prisoner and Palestinian leader Comrade Khalida Jarrar, in a Wednesday evening interview with Palestine Today satellite channel. “The continued reliance on bilateral negotiations…or other initiatives that differ slightly but remain on the framework of familed negotiations, without any political review required to replace it with a new political track to enhance Palestinian steadfastness and unity, is wasteful and destructive,” said Jarrar.
Jarrar said that the goal of these many initiatives is to cut the road in front of real political choice and political struggle, while diminishing the strength of the Palestinian case internationally, saying that the so-called “Arab initiative” is not a “serious option to support the Palestinian people and enable them to end the occupation.” She noted that a number of Arab countries are attempting to strengthen their relations with the occupation and using such initiatives in their interests in this regard.
Addressing the situation of Palestinian prisoners, she highlighted the imprisonment of Palestinian women, Palestinian children, and Palestinian elders – as well as “the arrest of Palestinian martyrs’ bodies,” saying the imprisonment of Palestinian bodies and refusal to return them for burial “demonstrates the fascist nature of the occupation.”
On the case of Bilal Kayed, Jarrar said that “two days ago, the struggler Bilal Kayed had a date with freedom after 14 and a half years behind bars, but the occupation ordered him to six months administrative detention. This is a very dangerous precedent.” She demanded the Palestinian Authority end security coordination with the occupation immediately, and called on international institutions to intensify their efforts to support Palestinian prisoners and hold the occupation accountable internationally.
“The occupation is chasing the Palestinian people and its strugglers wherever they are,” Jarrar said, referring to the case of Omar Nayef Zayed, found dead in the Palestinian embassy in Sofia on 26 February. She noted that there must be accountability for the Palestinian embassy in Bulgaria, in particular Ambassador Ahmad Al-Madhbouh. “It is necessary to take steps against both weakness and collusion in the case of the martyr Omar Nayef Zayed….for the killing of a struggling Palestinian within the embassy itself, there must be serious accountability. We do not absolve the ambassador, the embassy, the Foreign Ministry or the Palestinian Authority,” said Jarrar.
Jarrar emphasized that the global movement for boycott, divestment and sanctions has made great achievements internationally and that it is necessary to intensify efforts linked directly with the prisoners’ movement for real results for Palestinian prisoners. “There must be a serious effort to link the issue of prisoners to the boycott. The boycott movement deeply troubles the occupier and there are attempts to issue decisions and laws to prosecute boycott activity.”
Jarrar was released from occupation prison on Friday, 3 June, after 15 months in prison.
 