
“The resistance and steadfastness in Gaza has been crowned with victory after 51 days of war, in which the resistance fought heroically and made great sacrifices in defense of the land and people…and all Palestinians salute this victory achieved by the resistance,” said Comrade Khalida Jarrar from the tent of solidarity where she has remained since the occupation military courts ordered her expelled to Jericho.
“The celebrations on the occasion of victory and the joy of the people throughout the West Bank and Gaza are a testament to the people rallying around the option of resistance, for the Liberation of Palestine,” said Jarrar.
Jarrar spoke at a forum organized by the youth committee of the Union of Palestinian Women’s Committees in the solidarity tent featuring Jarrar and Sahar Francis, the Executive Director of Addameer, as well as a musical performance.
Jarrar noted that in relation to her own case, it is not primarily a legal issue but a political issue. She noted “several issues and reasons for the decision of the occupation,” noting a progressive escalation of repression by the occupation in al-Khalil, Jerusalem, and the attacks after the heinous murder of the child martyr Mohammed Abu Khdeir, the massive and barbaric aggression on Gaza, the escalation of settlement-building, the attacks on Jerusalem and Al-Aqsa Mosque, the mass arrests and exorbitant fines in Jerusalem, and the mass arrests in occupied Palestine ’48, the escalation of administrative detention, the arrests of a number of PLC members and released prisoners, and this expulsion order.
“This escalation reflects the state of crisis which hit the leaders of the enemy as a result of the growing mass rejection of their criminal policies in all areas of Palestine, which foreshadowed the transformation of this rejection into a new intifada,” Jarrar said. “They are trying to impose a new policy against Palestinians and Palestinian leaders, based on arbitrary orders, including this expulsion order. They possibly believed that they would be able to implement this policy easily, but we refuse to sign and refuse to implement and will resist the occupation and all of its orders, and we will remain until we remove the occupation from our entire land of Palestine.”
She noted that the policy of expelling people from so-called “Area A” to “Area A,” which are supposed to be under Palestinian sovereignty, clearly indicates the intention of the occupation in relation to their agreements with the Palestinian Authority. She also noted that the occupation seeks to annex the so-called “Area C,” where they are escalating the confiscation of land, constructing roads and settlements, and demolishing Palestinian homes.
“Following the victory in Gaza, it is now important to build on the massive popular support for the resistance among the people and political forces in the West Bank and Occupied Palestine ’48 to build the popular rejection to the occupier, working closely with the reconstruction of Gaza and supporting the resistance,” said Jarrar.
“The development of the popular struggle toward Intifada is a first priority, which we should work for very seriously,” said Jarrar. “The occupation’s continuing and escalating policies of brutality only accelerate the growing popular rejection….It is true that the objective factors are mature, but the subjective factor is not yet so. At the same time, the popular rejection of the occupation’s attacks provides the best environment to advance the subjective factor, through, first, the exercise of our rights as an occupied people to struggle in all forms, including armed struggle. We must adhere strongly to resistance as a way of life, just as we escalate mass struggle, for example, the boycott campaign, which is very important not only from the angle of the losses incurred by the enemy at all levels, but also from the angle of boycott as a popular choice and a way of life. Secondly, through the consolidation of national unity as a program. We can disagree with one another, but no people has triumphed without a broad national front based on a broad resistance program that unites all the forces and people under the banner of resistance until victory and the defeat of the occupation. The battle of the resistance in Gaza embodies this fact, and we must emulate and develop upon that. We must also develop a deeper understanding of national unity, which must begin at a popular, mass level, up to the formation of a unified national leadership…that can reorganize the framework of the PLO and rectify its policies and positions on the basis of a unified national resistance program,” Jarrar said.
“We must also link interim programs to our strategic objectives, first by strongly adhering to and organizing around the right of return. In this context, we can mobilize Palestinians inside occupied Palestine ’48, particularly in the face of growing and open Zionist racism. The mass popular movement there is the foundation for something much bigger. The youth initiatives, such as the initiative to return to the villages from which people were displaced, must also not be underestimated,” said Jarrar. Speaking to the youth organizers, she said, “you are propelling the future of our people’s movement. Take the initiative, and take leadership – do not wait for me or anyone to give you this right. You are the future of the people.”
 