
Comrade Khalida Jarrar, member of the political bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, said that security coordination between the Palestinian Authority and the Zionist occupation is a fundamental factor hindering the outbreak of a “third intifada” in the West Bank.
Jarrar said on October 3 that the security coordination with the occupation continues “despite the continuing Israeli attacks against Palestinian people, land and holy sites.” She said that the Palestinian Authority is attempting to prevent Palestinians from using their rights to express their refusal of occupation policies and pracctices. Security coordination is “the main reason preventing the outbreak of clashes with the occupation,” Jarrar said, noting that the Palestinian people will react to the racist occupation.
Further, she said that national unity, and ending the internal  division, as well as establishing a unified leadership for intifada are important precursors to a strong uprising. The Authority continues to focus on the potential for minor modifications in occupation policy that do not fundamentally benefit Palestinians, as the racist occupation retains its character and control, she said.
Furthermore, Jarrar said that negotiations are an attempt by the Authority and the occupation to prevent the outbreak of a third Intifada, and “negotiations are solely in favor of the occupation. The occupation aims to mislead international public opinion while it continues its crimes against the Palestinian people.” Jarrar demanded that the Authority and all Palestinian participants immediately cease negotiations with the occupation and instead join in the development of a resistance strategy to defend the Palestinian people and their rights.
“It is the right of the Palestinian people to defend their rights by all means, and all attempts to suppress and restrict their freedom must be ended immediately, and the people must be supported to confront occupation and racism,” said Jarrar.
 
 
 