
The attempt of the monopolistic Palestinian leadership to convene an emetgency session of the Palestinian National Council is an act of sabotage to the Palestinian house and utter disregard for Palestinian institutions and politics, said Comrade Leila Khaled, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, saying that such a decision must have a national consensus.
In an interview, Khaled denounced the tactics used to convene the emergency session of the PNC, noting that they were transparent: “How can Mahmoud Abbas submit his resignation in the Executive Committee meeting and ask others to resign, solely in order to create a justification to hold an emergency session of the Palestine National Council?”
“The Palestinian National Council should be convened on a regular basis. But why at this time after so many years? There have been significant events, including three wars on Gaza. The Judaization of Jerusalem is in full swing, the occupier is constructing more colonies every day on Palestinian land, the occupation is burning children and their parents as they sleep, as in the case of the child Dawabsheh and his family and the martyr Mohammed Abu Khudair, and the arrests of our people continue. And yet, we have heard nothing, and now, the Executive Committee is calling for the National Council” without reference to any of this, said Khaled.
The legal, periodic convening of the National Council is a national right, to implement what was agreed upon in Cairo and on the basis of national reconciliation agreements initiated by the prisoners. She wondered why now at this moment, despite the PNC being left aside for many years amid the division, the siege on Gaza, the destruction of the camps in Syria and the dangerous situation in Lebanon. “Instead, the National Council must respond to the challenges that confront us, the most important being to end the approach of negotiations, which have brought disaster to our people, and address division through implementing the Cairo agreement” for a democratic and inclusive PLO of all Palestinian national organizations, said Khaled.
“Why are these agreements not implemented? Why not hold this Council in regular session? It is being convened in this way in order to change some members loyal to the leadership…where is the Palestinian National Charter?” This action shows complete disregard for the institution of the PNC and threatens the credibility of the PLO, said Khaled.
“This is an attempt to tailor the executive committee for the convenience of the President, which reflects on the legitimacy of the organization,” said Khaled.
She emphasized that the main goal of convening any National Council is to restore Palestinian national unity between the factions and draw lessons from dangerous and incorrect past policies through a comprehensive political review, and to determine future steps of struggle and national unity for confrontation and struggle.
 