
The Popular Democratic Unity Party of Jordan organized a national and cultural forum on December 7 at the central trade union headquarters in Amman, marking the 25th anniversary of the founding of the party.
The PDUP or Wihda Party is an extension of the political and intellectual heritage of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and the Arab Nationalist Movement in Jordan.
Comrade Leila Khaled, member of the Political Bureau of the PFLP, delivered the main speech on Palestine at the event, noting that this event came as part of the struggle of the Jordanian and Palestinian peoples, marking the anniversary of the intifada, the founding of the PFLP and the founding of the Wihda party.
“Today, we see a third intifada shaking the foundations of the enemy, its army and hordes of settlers who seek to terrorise our people again and again. This uprising started where the enemy did not expect it – our capital, Jerusalem, where it came in rejection to the negotiations and in response to the devastating internal Palestinian division,” said Khaled.
“Any leadership and any authority that does not serve its people and does not liberate the land or secure the return of the refugees does not deserve to lead the people who have given so many martyrs and prsoners,” she said.
Comrade Faraj al-Tameezi of the Jordanian Communist Party spoke, discussing the class struggle in Jordan between bourgeois and parasitic forces and the working class in Jordan, noting that repressive policies and the arrest of journalists are part of the suppression of the popular movement in Jordan, and come in line with the demands of the International Monetary Fund and other global imperialist forces.
Dr. Muwaffaq Mahadin, head of the Jordanian Authors’ Union, spoke saluting the martyrs and the prisoners. He quoted Gramsci – “The old is dying and the new is not yet born” – addressing the current situation of the Arab peoples. He concluded his speech, saying “The path of liberation lives in the literature of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine: no voice is louder than the sound of the guns.”
Comrade Dr. Said Diab, General Secretary of the Wihda Party, said that this anniversary is the opportunity for a new stage in the Jordanian national movement, linking the Jordanian national democratic movement with the struggle for the liberation of Palestine.
Diab saluted the intifada emerging in occupied Palestine, saying that it represents a new overall phase in the Palestinian revolutionary movement towards liberation. He saluted the prisoners, especially Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat, imprisoned General Secretary of the PFLP, Comrade Khalida Jarrar and all of the thousands of freedom fighters in Zionist jails.
The event concluded with poetry, music, dance and the presentation of awards to veterans of the Wihda party.
 