
The Jordanian National Campaign to Stop the Zionist Gas Deal organized a mass rally in Amman, Jordan, under the slogan “Yes to dignity and sovereignty, no to subordination and dependence,” with the participation of national figures, parliamentarians, political parties, labor unions and popular and youth movements in front of the Professional Associations Complex, denouncing official normalization and the gas deal with the Zionist entity.
The demonstration rejected the Wadi Araba agreement and all agreements with the occupation state, noting that the gas deal is a disgrace that must come to an immediate end. The Jordanian people have rejected this deal while the government defends it, said the protest organizers. In addition, the protesters called for the cancellation of the “Red Sea – Dead Sea” water deal and cancelling the entire Wadi Araba treaty which represents humiliation and subjugation to the Zionist entity.
The campaign’s coordinator spoke at the end of the march, saying, “Despite the clear popular rejection of normalization with the Zionist entity, despite the failure to ever break this clear position by the people of this country, despite 20 years of the damaging, destructive Wadi Araba Agreement, this government is still determined to sign more agreements to forcibly impose normalization on the homes of every Jordanian citizen and make each of us a partner in supplying the Zionist enemy’s treasury with billions of dollars to promote the aggressive capacity of its army and to finance the settlement projects and wars. This deal also puts all Jordanians in danger of direct extortion by the enemy through its control of the most dangerous weapon of access to energy and control over the basic electricity needs of Jordanians.”
The Jordanian Committee to Stop the Zionist Gas Deal is calling for the following:
First, the immediate cancellation of the gas deal and rejection of its political, security and economic consequences. The gas deal attempts to legitimize the colonial-settler Zionist project, undermine sovereignty and promote dependency.
Second, the gas deal to import gas from the Zionist entity by means of an agreement between the Jordanian national electricity company and Noble Energy USA as representative of a coalition of Israeli companies, represents the biggest strategic threat to Jordan and its people at the present time, and the Letter of Intent signed in September 2014 must be abolished.
Third, the campaign categorically rejects all forms of normalization with the Zionist entity in the economic, commercial, cultural, political and all other fields.
Fourth, the campaign demands the cancellation of the deal signed by the Arab Potash company in early 2014 to import gas from the Zionist enemy.
Fifth, the campaign demands rejection and repudiation of the “Red Sea-Dead Sea” water pipeline agreement signed recently between the Jordanian state and the Zionist entity, which forms part of the project for total control of natural resources,integrating the Zionists in the region and expanding their influence.
Sixth, the campaign rejects the importation of gas from the fields bordering besieged and occupied Gaza under the domination of the Zionist entity and subject to its control in the energy field; this source cannot be used until it is free from Zionist control.
The Jordanian Campaign to Stop the Zionist Gas Deal notes that it refuses the importation of gas from the Zionist state even if it were free, but that the public excuses of political officials about the “lack of alternatives” are misleading and false. Alternatives include:
1. Readying the liquefied natural gas port at Aqaba to import gas from any other source, first and foremost Arab sources;
2. The availability of oil shale in Jordan to be used directly, or to refine it to generate electricity. Two companies are working in this area;
3. Renewable energy such as wind power and solar power; the latter is especially promising in Jordan;
4. The prevention of waste and theft in the electricity network, which will bring enormous savings;
5. Investing and developing gas fields close to Jordan in Arab territorial waters.
Each of these alternatives can be in practice by 2019, the year in which it is projected to first import gas from the Zionist state. The campaign includes professional syndicates, labor unions, political parties, parliamentarians, popular movements, youth associations, women’s organizations and retired military officials, all calling on the people to rally to reject this agreement and support activities to stop the gas deal.
 