
Comrade Jamil Mizher, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and leader of its branch in Gaza, strongly denounced the Palestinian Authority leadership’s acceptance of the so-called “Serry plan” and United Nations oversight of the reconstruction of Gaza, following the Israeli war crimes on the Gaza Strip.
The resistance factions have a right to respond to the growing crimes of the occupation to defend the rights of the Palestinian people, including in light of the ceasefire agreement, said Mizher.
“It is clear that the situation in Gaza is very difficult in light of the suffering of Palestinian civilians on an individual and collective basis and the massive displacement after the recent Zionist aggression. All sectors in Gaza suffer bitterly from the Israeli blockade which has not been lifted,” Mizher said. He noted that occupation aggression is continuing and escalating in various forms against the Palestinian people, including the escalation in Jerusalem, the ongoing attacks on Al-Aqsa, the expansion of settlement construction, and the continuation of the blockade of Gaza and refusal to open the crossings despite the ceasefire agreement.
Remarking on the role of the Front, Mizher said that “The PFLP is committed to relieve the burden on our people, especially in Gaza, and working unremittingly to build a broader popular and national unified front with a unified national vision to confront the occupation. The Palestinian Authority, the national reconciliation government, and Hamas and the factions all have obligations and must act in earnest to ease the burden on the people.”
Mizher rejected the plan of United Nations Middle East envoy Robert Serry for the reconstruction of Gaza, saying that “the Serry plan is totally unacceptable. I do not see how Palestinian Authority officials can accept such a plan, which intensifies the suffering of the Palestinian people by legitimizing, perpetuating, and providing cover for the blockade and siege.”
Regarding the ceasefire between Palestinian factions and the Israeli occupation signed under Egyptian auspices after 51 days of war on Gaza, Mizher said “It is too early to discuss military action, despite the readiness of the resistance factions to respond to the occupation by all means as long as it occupies our land and imprisons our people.” He noted that the PFLP has a position against “calm,” and considers it to be a wrong policy, but is committed to national consensus on this subject that is tied to the interests and demands of the Palestinian people.
 