
The Palestinian leadership is marching toward a serious disaster and concessions on Palestinian national constants, and we fear that it is heading toward “Oslo 2,” said Comrade Jamil Mizher, member of the Central Committee of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
In an interview, he said that “the return to negotiations on US/Israeli terms represents a lifeline to the occupation and the Obama administration, looking for achievements at the expense of our rights, in order to preserve its strategy and vision in the region and preserve the security of the occupation state.” Mizher noted that the US and Israel are taking advantage of the current situation in the Arab countries.
“The Palestinian leadership has slipped to a dangerous point, discussing annexation of settlement blocs and outposts in the West Bank and Jerusalem, which limits any state to a group of enclaves and cantons,” said Mizher. “This includes discussion of exchange of territory, conceding the right of return, and threatens Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine.” There is talk of a ‘sovereign state’ in exchange, said Mizher, and therefore we are confronting serious concessions of Palestinian national and human rights.
Mizher called for popular actions in Jerusalem, Gaza, the West Bank, Occupied Palestine ’48 and everywhere in diaspora in order to force the Palestinian negotiators to undo this step and end the negotiations. The negotiation policy is one that has taken place over a long period of time, said Mizher, and not only has it achieved nothing, it has in fact caused great damage to the Palestinian cause.
Mizher said that the release of a limited number of prisoners cannot be exchanged for concessions on Palestinian rights. These heroic prisoners fought for self-determination, liberation and return, he said, and will not accept that their freedom comes in exchange for concessions of their rights; he called upon national and Islamic forces to use all means to release prisoners.
for their release.
 