
All Palestinian factions must work to end the crisis of the Yarmouk refugee camps and must not ignore or disregard the camps and the Palestinians in exile trapped amidst the conflict in Syria or other Arab countries, said Comrade Jamil Mizher, member of the Political Bureau for the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, on January 11.
“The Yarmouk refugee camp is suffering from a tragic humanitarian catastropher. Over 30 Palestinian refugees have died of starvation, further displacing the refugees as they struggle to return from refugee camps in exile and diaspora,” Mizher said. He demanded the Palestinian leadership and the PLO escalate efforts to end the horrors suffered by the people of the camp and ensure the provision of needed aid for a minimum of a decent life. “This is critical to support the steadfastness of the camps and confront all attempts to displace them or liquidate the refugees’ just cause.”
Mizher said that there is a national and popular duty to address what is happening in Yarmouk, urging all to take up their national duty, defend the neutrality of the camp and end the horrors of hunger and war. He noted that an agreement has in the past been made which requires every effort in order to implement; this means that the armed groups who are hiding within the camp must exit, and the siege must be removed from the perimeter of the camp, and that the introduction of food parcels and medicine must be allowed immediately.
Mizher accused parties who do not benefit from this agreement of playing a negative role, attempting to undermine the agreement and sabotage all efforts to end the suffering of the camp. Mizher further demanded that the United Nations play their role in providing all support and sustenance to our people in the camp and the opening of safe corridors for the introduction of relief aid and medicine.
In protest of the crisis confronting Palestinian refugees in Yarmouk, the Martyr Ehab Abu Qumssan organization of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine in Northern Gaza organized a sit-in in solidarity with the Palestinian refugees in Yarmouk refugee camp in Damascus, Syria on January 9.
Many leaders, cadres members and supporters of the Front participated in the vigil which took place in the roundabout of Sheikh Zayed City, calling for an end of the blockade of our Palestinian people trapped in Yarmouk and stop the tragedy taking place in Yarmouk. Comrade Tayseer Zaqqout spoke on behalf of the PFLP, expressing his strongest condemnation of the heinous crimes being committed against our people in the camps, which have caused dozens of deaths and much illness among the innocent civilians of the camp.
Zaqqout demanded the parties involved to respect the neutrality and security of Palestinian refugee camps in Syria. He urged the need to protect the presence of Palestinian refugees and their human and legal rights as they march on the road to return to the homes from which they were expelled. Over 33 have died due to hunger since the siege of the camp began months ago.
Zaqqout said that the killing of Palestinian refugees in Syria and the criminal blockade of the Yarmouk refugee camp serves only the enemies of the Palestinian people and offers a free service to them. He strongly condemned Western interference in Syria, which seeks only to destroy Syria as a colonial project and in service to the goals of the Zionist entity in the Arab region.
He called upon Palestinian factions to unify their efforts to pressure all parties to end the tragedy existing in Yarmouk camp.
 