
Zionist aggressions continually target the Palestinian people in different forms, bombing Palestinians, targeting innocent civilians in the border areas, and today targeting innocent children through indiscriminate shelling of homes, noting the murder of Hala Abu Sbeikha, said Comrade Jamil Mizher, member of the Central Committee of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
Mizher said that the killing of Abu Sbeikha, 3 years old, and the injury of a number of Palestinian civilians demonstrates the brutality of the criminal occupation who continues its aggression also against the Palestinian people in the West Bank through settlement construction, the Judaization of Jerusalem, the imposition of facts on the ground and the assassination of the resistance.
He said that in light of this situation, Palestinian resistance forces must conduct a comprehensive review to develop a national strategic framework to confront the occupation and respond to its ongoing crimes perpetrated against the Palestinian people. Mizher said that resistance is the right of our people guaranteed by all international norms and conventions and that our people have the right to defend themselves in the face of this criminal aggression. He pointed out that the occupation seeks to maintain the situation and preserve the truce.
Mizher added that the Zionist occupation has noted the developing potential of deterrence of the Palestinian resistance during the recent war on Gaza, and hesitates to expand its operations in anticipation of the reaction of the Palestinian resistance, which previously has hit the heart of the Zionist entity with rockets. He noted that the occupation practiced killing and bombing operations from time to time in order to keeep the Strip and the resistance under the pressure of Zionist military operations, but that it seeks to maintain a calm that serves its interests in the present time in light of the situation in the Arab world and internationally.
Mizher noted that the Zionist occupation’s aggressive racist policies including the targeting of children and the elderly is consistent, in light of the ongoing and continuous breaches of the so-called truce through its targeting of farmers in the border areas, fishers in the sea, and others, as well as continuing the siege on Gaza and turning it into a prison for over 1 million people. All of this is happening, he said, under the eyes of the international community which does not act to condemn or counteract the aggression, killings, siege and closure imposed on Palestinians in Gaza.
The Front always rejects truce with the occupation as a wrong policy exploited by the Zionist occupation to continue its aggression and tyranny against our people, said Mizher. He criticized Hamas’ acceptance of an agreement for calm, because it serves to maintain its authority and presence in Gaza.
In another context, Mizher warned of the serious danger of the so-called Kerry Plan by the US Secretary of State that threatens the national rights of the Palestinian people, ignores the right of refugees to return and attempts to legitimate the ongoing occupation of the Jordan Valley, saying all must confront this dangerous project and pressure the Palestinian leadership to reject any such projects and immediately end the negotiations, which are rejected across the Palestinian political and social spectrum.
Comrade Emad Abu Rahma, a member of the Central Committee of the PFLP, also called for the formation of a unified resistance front of all Palestinian factions to confront aggression against the Palestinian people in an interview with Voice of the People radio. Abu Rahma said that the program of resistance is the realistic and practical alternative to the futile negotiations which achieved nothing for the Palestinian people and are a mechanism to impose the US-Israeli project upon the Palestinian people.
The Kerry proposals include the adoption of the full vision of Zionist “security” to perpetuate the occupation and settlements, with no recognition of the rights of the Palestinian people to return and self-determination, said Abu Rahma.
Speaking to the siege on Gaza and the occupation authorities’ closing of Kerem Shalom crossing, Abu Rahma noted that this is an ongoing method used as a means of pressure against Palestinians in Gaza. He called on Egyptian authorities to open the Rafah crossing for the free movement of goods and people, in order to support the steadfastness of the Palestinian people facing occupation and siege.
 
 
 