
Comrade Jamil Mizher, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, saluted the spirit of the heroic martyr of al-Khalil, Ibrahim Skafi, who carried out a heroic operation which injured several Israeli soldiers, causing panic among the occupying forces in the area. Mizher noted that the operation only re-confirms that the intifada and resistance of our people cannot be stopped by the attacks of the occupier.
Mizher also saluted the masses of the Palestinian people in Jerusalem, the West Bank, Gaza Strip, occupied Palestine 48, the camps and everywhere in diaspora, who continue to struggle and engage in the uprising despite the enormous sacrifices given by our people.
In an interview on Al-Aqsa TV, Mizher said that the most important achievement to date of the current uprising is the emergence of a strong young generation that is leading in the midst of the battle, noting that the intifada has proven once again the falsehood of the Zionist statement that “the old will die and the young will soon forget.” Instead, this generation has shown its commitment and dedication to the resistance of our people until achieving our goals: return, liberation and self-determination.
Mizher said that this uprising is also striking blows against the Zionist insistence on considering occupied Jerusalem to be “the eternal capital of the Israeli state,” as the people of Jerusalem and its youth are fighting the occupation for their city. The uprising has also come in contrast to the predictions made at last year’s Herzliya conference, which sought to remove the Palestinian situation from the table as the occupier bet on calm in occupied Palestine. The uprising of Palestinian youth has surprised and disoriented the occupier.
Furthermore, Mizher noted, the uprising unites the Palestinian masses throughout the occupied homeland, where the Palestinian people and their blood in the West Bank, Jerusalem, Gaza and occupied Palestine 48 are standing together, reflecting popular unity and determination. He urged the need to build on this basis to continue and escalate the intifada and provide all elements of steadfastness and protection for its continuation until the ousting of the occupier.
This uprising did not come from a vacuum, but erupted following a series of accumulating and ongoing crimes against our people, including the ongoing Judaization and ethnic clansing of Jerusalem, the ongoing killings, the land confiscation, home demolition and attempts to change the “facts on the ground,” the storming of Al-Aqsa and attempted division of it, said Mizher. He noted also that this uprising follows ongoing Palestinian responses and resistance actions to these crimes, including the operation by the hero and martyr Moataz Hijazi, as well as the martyrs of the Front, Uday and Ghassan Abu Jamal. These operations and the new daily operations are being carried out by the children of the Palestinian factions, raised in the national struggle, even if each operation is carried out on a spontaneous or individual basis in the fire of the intifada, said Mizher.
He denounced those who are attempting to bet on a break, calm, or downturn in the intifada or the surrender of the Palestinian people, saying that the reality is that Oslo and the occupation will fall before our people and that our people will esclate the uprising to confront the occupier.
He also urged the immediate implementation of the recommendations of the Political Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization, including putting a final end to the Oslo agreement, ending security coordination and economic, political and security agreements with the occupier. The declaration of the Executive Committee of the PLO to end this coordination is a positive step but must be implemented in practice rather than simply using it as a rhetorical device while coordination continues on the ground, said Mizher.
He also urged the formation of a united national strategy with a common vision for the continuation of the uprising, and the need to confront all attempts to return to the futile and harmful negotiations or rely on the US government, which is a full partner in the aggression against the Palestinian people, said Mizher.
Mizher stated the necessity of providing political protection for the uprising by enhancing the steadfastness of our people and compensating families whose homes have been demolished or displaced, as well as the promotion of social solidarity to the people under difficult circumstances.
Furthermore, Mizher said, the most important threat to the continuity of the uprising is the absence of a unified national leadership. He urged the necessity of working in a national framework to strengthen the political, organizational and economic pillars of continuity of the intifada, and to convert the occupation into a losing project on security and economic levels, raising the cost to the occupier.
Mizher also emphasized the need to have no illusions about the Arab regimes that are backed by the United States as part of the program to destroy the Arab liberation project and support the Zionist project, stating that we must rely on the Palestinian people first, alongside the Arab people and the popular, democratic forces of the world, where the current intifada has brought the issue of Palestine back to the forefront after years of marginalization.
 