
Building a mass movement to reject the Kerry proposals that threaten the Palestinian national movement and the Palestinian refugees’ right to return is critically important at this time, said Comrade Jamil Mizher, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
Responding to reports of Kerry’s proposals for a “framework” agreement to further infringe Palestinian rights, Mizher noted that “continuing to bet on the U.S. as the sponsor of negotiations is the bet of a loser, on illusions and mirage. Kerry’s positions are entirely those of the ‘Israeli’ perspective.”
Mizher said, “There is talk about the liquidation of the Palestinian refugee cause, the return of hundreds or thousands to the lands occupied in 1948, and dismissing the right of return of over 6 million Palestinian refugees in the camps and in exile and diaspora, waiting for their moment to return to the homes and lands from which they were expelled.”
There is an international campaign for the boycott of the Israeli occupier in light of its racist and fascist occupation and growing international support for the Palestinian cause as it confronts racism, fascism and Zionism, Mizher said.
The best way to confront the settlers’ government is to immediately end this futile and dangerous negotiation process and instead prioritize restoring Palestinian national unity, Mizher said, including extracting the file of the Palestinian cause from the grasp of the United States and its strategic ally, the Zionist occupation state. The United Nations, he noted, has a responsibility to implement its resolutions of international legitimacy, first and foremost Resolution 194 guaranteeing the refugees’ right of return.
Palestinian leaders should go to international institutions to put the occupation on trial in international courts, he said. “The right of return of Palestinian refugees is individual, collective, and inalienable. Discussion of compensation is about compensation for the years of exile, loss and exploitation of Palestinian land for over 60 years, not a replacement or substitution for returning to the homes from which Palestinian refugees were expelled. This is a collective right held by all Palestinian refugees and an individual right held by each refugee and cannot be bargained away, subject to liquidation, or waiver,” Mizher said.
Mizher said that the PFLP is working to confront the U.S. scheme to liquidate Palestinian rights, urging a broad mass popular response to bring the Kerry plan – and its threats to Palestine – to an early end.
 