
Many Left, anti-racist, anti-war and anti-imperialist organizations and parties in Greece have responded to the call of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine to protest the visit of Benjamin Netanyahu and demand his expulsion from Greece. We are re-publishing the calls from these organizations to the demonstrations, which will take place on Thursday, June 15 at 7:00 pm: in Athens, at the Zionist Embassy and in Thessaloniki, at the Venizelos Statue. 
Below is the statement from the New Left Current (NAR), ANTARSYA, LAE, KKE (ml):
An anti-imperialist alarm has been risen in Athens and Thessaloniki by anti-war and anti-racist movements, unions, political organizations and movements, the friends of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and the Samidoun Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network to confront the dangerous developments in the region confronting us.
ANTARSYA, the Network for Social and Political Rights, Popular Unity (LAE) and KKE (ml) invite the people of Thessaloniki to demonstrate on Thursday, 15 June at 7:00 pm at a large demonstration at Venizelos Statue against the Greece-Israel-Cyprus summit in Thessaloniki. The call stands opposed to wars, imperialist interventions and joint military exercises between Greece and Israel as well as the dangerous alliance of Greece, Israel, Cyprus and Egypt. As organizations emphasize in their call, the SYRIZA-ANEL government is turning the land and water over to the US for their new imperialist campaigns. The Souda base has been granted already for operational plans in neighboring countries, while the government provides and prepares an new military installation in Karpathos!
In Athens, the antiwar coordination calls for a demonstration on Thursday, 15 June at 7 pm at the Israeli embassy with a march to the Ministry of Defense as the Israeli prime minister Netanyahu is in Thessaloniki. This meeting comes under the scrutiny of the US, seeking to divide the pie of the extraction and transport of natural gas in Europe and promotion of military cooperation in the Eastern Mediterranean for the benefit of NATO and the economic oligarchy’s investments in research, technology and tourism. During the same period, Greece is also a site for the transfer of troops to the “Noble Jump 2017” NATO exercises in Romania.
 