
On the occasion of International Workers Day, May 1, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine called for the Palestinian right of return, self-determination and independence, emphasizing the continuing struggle to dismantle the Zionist project on Palestinian land and to continue the struggle against poverty, oppression and occupation.
The Front saluted the workers of the world and the oppressed and marginalized people of the world on this day, expressing the unity of common struggle against common enemies, with renewed determination to struggle to defeat capitalism, colonialism and imperialism. These have perpetuated poverty against the oppressed peoples of the world and seek to control our peoples, capabilities and resources, using the power of finance capital and economic domination alongside military fleets in attacking countries and peoples around the world, in an attempt to hold the entire world at the mercy of capitalist management.
However, the Front noted, economic and social crises have made this impossible, as well as the strength and continued struggle of the peoples of the world and revolutionary and progressive forces, which have led to retreats in the globalization of capitalism and the rise of a multipolar world as well as broad social movements against capitalism and globalizaition.
This reaffirms that the workers and their allies, united will be able in all circumstances to confront and thwart capitalism and achieve their goals of justice and full equality, said the Front.
The workers of Palestine are most vulnerable to oppression and exploitation, said the Front, due to the occupation and siege, which has increased unemployment up to 40% and the poverty rate to nearly 39%. This impacts the entire Palestinian society, the Front noted.
The solution to this situation is found first in ending the occupation that embodies the mating of Zionism and capitalism, and which serves as the head of the spear in our region to defend the interests of those who exploit and oppress our people, said the Front.
The Front called for an end to internal Palestinian division, restoring national unity to confront the occupation and demand the full implementation of the rights of the Palestinian people. It emphasized that policies of economic and social justice for workers, the poor and marginalized are critical to reduce unemployment and poverty among our people, including ending policies of privatization. Further, the Front noted the need to unify the labor unions through holding democratic elections with the participation of all on the basis of full proportional representation.
The Front called for intensified efforts to build connections and solidarity with friends of the Palestinian people around the world, in particular left-wing and communist forces, to boycott the Zionist entity at all levels as a racist regime similar to the apartheid regime in South Africa, which was boycotted and isolated by the free peoples of the world in the 1980s.
 