
On the occasion of the 68th anniversary of the Nakba of 1948, we greet the masses of the Palestinian people in Palestine and in diaspora.
The Palestinian Nakba and its consequences for the Palestinian people have been ongoing now for 68 years under very complex local, regional, and global conditions.
On a Palestinian level, our people’s uprising continues despite of the official Palestinian leadership’s position of adhering to the devastating path of Oslo with force, including the arresting and suppression of activists, in the continuation of security coordination with the Zionist occupation. This continues despite the decision of the Palestinian Central Council to halt security coordination. This leadership also continues to rely on the United States as well as the French government, especially in relation to the so-called “French initiative” as a means to pressure the Israeli occupation to the negotiating table. All of this has failed to inhibit in any way the Zionist terror against the Palestinian people.
This year’s anniversary comes also amid continued division and fragmentation and siege imposed upon our people, which threatens disastrous results and exacerbates the suffering of our people, inhibiting their ability to survive and resist. The youth uprising has come as a material response to the state of political stalemate, the arrogance of the enemy and its tyranny and brutality, and has disrupted the occupation army’s forces and exposed this racist entity that executes Palestinian youth in the fields and the streets.
Although the uprising of our people is centered in the West Bank and Gaza and the lands occupied in 1948, we emphasize the importance of cohesion, support and mutual struggle by the Palestinian people everywhere in exile and diaspora. We emphasize the unity and depth of the Palestinian people’s commitment to the unity of the land and people, who reject all attempts to divide and fragment Palestine. We have no option but to build meaningful national unity to achieve the goals of our people to self-determination and national liberation.
Our people have suffered time and again from displacement, most recently from the camps who are witness to tragedy and misfortune, and yet remain on the road to struggle to return, and to liberate their land. The camps have faced the most difficult and painful circumstances throughout 68 years of Nakba, from the Gaza Strip to the camps of Lebanon, Iraq, and now Syria, with the goal of erasing the camps and their people and therefore the core of the national rights of the Palestinian people, the right of return.
On this day, we affirm that the path of settlement and compromise does not fulfill the rights of the Palestinian people or safeguard their achievements. On this occasion, the Right of Return and Refugees department of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine emphasizes:
First, the categorical rejection of the outcome of the Nakba; we uphold the right of the Palestinian people to return as the essence of the Palestinian national liberation program, and the urgency of protecting and supporting the steadfastness of the refugees.
Second, the road of resistance and unity is the road of return and achieving our rights, with a unified goal.
Third, the continuation of division endangers the national struggle in the face of campaigns for its liquidation.
Fourth, we emphasize the responsibility of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and UN Relief Works Agency (UNRWA) to protect and support the camps amid conflicts in the region to protect our people and the compass of the struggle toward return to Palestine, the land of the grandparents, parents, children and grandchildren of the camps.
Salute to the martyrs, freedom to the prisoners, and healing for the wounded. We salute the martyrs of return, torches of return and liberation. We salute the children of the refugee camps and their steadfast adherence to their rights. We will return!
PFLP Right of Return and Refugees Department
 