
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine said on Palestinian Prisoners’ Day, that the policies and practices of the occupation – of racism, oppression, military and settler police and their courts, of the military and its legal system – against thousands of prisoners, men and women, children and elders, and against the land and the people, are war crimes and state terrorism. These are organized and systematic attempts to liquidate the Palestinian cause and deny the Palestinian people’s right to freedom, to return, to independence and self-determination, as are shared by all other peoples of the earth.
The PFLP greeted the Palestinian prisoners with appreciation and pride, freedom and dignity on Palestinian Prisoners’ Day. It saluted the Palestinian and Arab prisoners, young and old, men and women, those with long sentences, the members of the Legislative Council and the leaders of our people, led by Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat, general secretary of the Popular Front; Marwan Barghouti, member of the Central Committee of Fateh; and our brother Aziz Dweik, sopeaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council. The Front also greeted with pride and gratitude the families of the prisoners and the martyrs, saluting their steadfastness, commitment and pride, emphasizing that it is a national duty to protect and provide for their moral, legal, political and material needs and to fulfil the steadfastness and mountainous sacrifices provided by our imprisoned people.
The PFLP said that the movement of prisoners, despite the brutality of the occupation and its fascist wardens, stands as a model of unity, resilience, struggle and innovation, saluting their experience of struggle and their battle of the empty stomachs, saying that the will of the prisoners is stronger than the whip of the occupation and that all of the prisons of the occupation will come crashing down. The PFLP affirmed that the prisoners’ movement will bring to an end isolation cells, solitary confinement, administrative detention, kidnapping, murder and deportation and will play a central role in ending occupation and colonization throughout Palestine.
The Front called upon the Palestinian people and all of its forces to support the struggle of the prisoners, emphasizing the great importance of integrating all forms of national struggle and including the issue of the freedom of the prisoners as a constant of the Palestinian national cause. It said that this is a component of the national struggle for liberation, return and self-determination, and necessary to strengthen the Palestinian, Arab and international official and popular struggle for legal, human, moral and funamental rights. It emphasized that Palestinian prisoners are prisoners of war, because of their struggle for freedom, and that the occupation must be compelled to comply with international humanitarian law and the Geneva Convention. The Front noted that the international community is nearly mute on the issues of Palestinian prisoners, saying that the occupation and its leaders should be brought before international tribunals to be held accountable for their crimes, and that the occupation state must be internationally delegitimized and isolated as was apartheid South Africa.
The Front praised international popular action to support prisoners, and called upon parliaments of the world to advocate for the release of members of the Palestinian Legislative Council and all Palestinian prisoners, urging the expulsion of the Knesset, the parliament of the occupation state, from the Inter-Parliamentary Union. The Front called for the Human Rights Council to send an international committee to examine the damages caused by settlements, occupation and aggression and called upon all international authorities to reject the International Criminal Court’s decision to not consider the crimes of the occupation.
The Front called on Prisoners’ Day for popular resistance and diverse struggle everywhere, challenging the occupation and the jailer inside the prison cells and outside the front doors of the jails, calling for broad participation in the rally in front of the Ofer Prison at 1pm on April 17, Palestinian Prisoners’ Day.
 
 