
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine issued a statement January 26, 2012 marking the fourth anniversary of the passing of the founding leader of the Arab Nationalist Movement and the Popular Front, Dr. George Habash, al-Hakim.
The Front stated that his ideas and political views survive, struggle, and triumph today, where united Arab peoples are building a process of change and liberation, bringing to an end tyranny, corruption, dependeny and normalization. The revolutions of 14 and 25 January in Tunisia and Egypt are living examples, as the Arab people continue popular struggle and national democratic revolution for dignity, freedom and social justice.
Al-Hakim, the wise man of the revolution, founded the Arab Nationalist Movement following the Nakba in the early 1950s, and the Popular Front after June 1967. He dedicated his life to the struggle of his people and his nation, confronting a treacherous conspiracy and brutal war waged by the forces of colonialism and the Zionist occupation of Palestine, the displacement of the Palestinian people and the ongoing denial of their rights to return and self-determination, the fragmentation of the Arab nation, its underdevelopment and the domination of its wealth and resources by imperialism. From his days as a young man in the prime of life to the last day of his life, he was committed to the resistance and all forms of political, intellectual, economic, armed and unarmed struggle, stemming from the uniqueness of the Palestinian cause. The bloody crimes of occupation, settlement, the racist Zionist movement, the capitalist system and global imperialism only confirm his commitment of the impossibility of coexistence with the occupation state and the need for national unity in the Palestinian struggle, linked organically with the Arab national struggle for liberation, democracy, justice and unity, and with the global struggle against injustice, exploitation, and for freedom and peace, said the Front.
The PFLP reiterated the founder’s rejection of any violation of the national struggle, the rights of our people, and his firm commitment to return, self-determination and sovereignty, as well as his constant dedication to build social and political democracy within the PLO and within national decision-making.
The Front also noted that this anniversary accompanies the Egyptian Revolution of January 25, raising a salute to the Arab nation and the lives of the martyrs who fell on the path of victory of the revolution in the land of Egypt, and throughout the Arab world, stressing that this revolution will not retreat and will continue until achieving its slogan, “The people want to overthrow the regime,” and building social, national and political democracy that puts an end to the era of tyranny, corruption and dependency, and an end to injustice and underdevelopment.
The PFLP called, in memory of Al-Hakim and all of the martyrs who sacrificed for the struggle, to achieve the goals for which they gave their lives – unity and resistance to liberate the land and people, calling for a unified national democratic political program, an end to negotiations which are nothing but a burden on the unity and steadfastness of the Palestinian people and the national struggle. This program must be built, said the Front, on the goals of the martyrs, the prisoners, and the steadfast people – liberation, self-determination and return.
 