
Since the United Nations General Assembly vote in 1977 designating November 29 as the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People, who are struggling to achieve the national rights of return, self-determination and independent statehood, as recognized by the United Nations on multiple occasions and votes.
The International Day of Solidarity this year coincides with the intensifying racist, Zionist occupation attack against the Palestinian people, their land and their rights. There is a systematic campaign of ethnic cleansing and land confiscation for the construction of colonial settlements, the Judaization of Jerusalem, and the threats to Al-Aqsa Mosque of temporal and spatial division in a prelude to its destruction and the establishment of the “temple,” and the Israeli war machine continues its killing, displacement, siege, detention and torture.
2014 was adopted by the United Nations as the Year of Solidarity with the Palestinian People. The occupation state has in no way halted its occupation and aggression and instead has shown unequivocally once more that it continues to implement its assault on justice, peace and the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people, and reject all resolutions of the United Nations and the will of the people of the world. Increasingly, its deceptive façade of democracy is slipping before the eyes of the world and it is being exposed as a racist, exclusionary regime of terror far from any vision of human rights. The Zionist entity’s political current today aims at transforming the nature of the conflict to a religious conflict that would expand throughout the region and threaten all peoples of the area, targeting once more the dispossession of the indigenous Palestinian people from their lands, including those of our people who stand steadfast in their land occupied by the Zionist forces since 1948.
In the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian people, it must be clear that the long years of futile and damaging negotiations have done nothing but inflict great damage on the Palestinian people and their cause while providing cover for the ongoing Israeli crimes, violations and attacks. These negotiations do not serve the interests of justice or peace, but the ambitions of the occupier who would claim all of Palestinian land and deny all Palestinian national rights.
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine salutes the peoples, movements and nations of the world who stand with the Palestinian people and express their solidarity today. We urge the escalation, expansion and development of the solidarity movement, to challenge and defeat the attempts of the occupation state and its allies to deceive the global public by exposing the nature of the Zionist colonial settler project and expand the circle of international support for the Palestinian people, and isolate, boycott and sanction Israel. It is only by achieving and recognizing the Palestinian people’s rights that the values of freedom, justice, democracy, tolerance and peace may triumph in the world.
On this day, the Front also urges Palestinian national unity to emerge from the crisis of the Palestinian national liberation movement to rebuild Palestinian institutions on the basis of democracy, pluralism and commitment to Palestinian national rights and resistance and rejects the approach of negotiations and reliance on U.S. domination. The Palestinian struggle on the official international level must be escalated in the United Nations and its institutions, and without hesitation, Palestine must join the international treaties and organizations, including acceding to the Rome Statute and the International Criminal Court to bring the Zionist leadership to trial and prosecution for their crimes against our people.
On this occasion, the Front salutes those who have fallen for Palestine’s freedom and liberation, wishes a speedy recovery to the wounded and freedom to the prisoners, and appeals to the Arab and Islamic peoples to prepare to confront the Zionist state as it continues its expansion over the entire land of Palestine and threatens the future of the region and its people.
 