
No sooner did the PFLP prison organization complete its third conference and elect a new leadership, surprising the Israeli prison administration and its security services, than did they order the administrative detention of Comrade Bilal Kayed. The comrade was a member of the leadership of the Prison Branch and the leader of the northern section in the branch; after 14 and a half years in captivity, including more than 8 months in isolation at the end of his sentence. As soon as his sentence was completed, awaiting freedom, he was hit with an unjust administrative detention order.
For anyone who does not know Comrade Bilal Kayed, a militant youth who went through the prison experience, arrested before the age of 20 as a struggler in the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades in Nablus. Among our comrades in prison he grew and strengthened as a leader, and within a few years inside the prisons he was one of the leaders of the PFLP, leading several area organizations before rising through the organizational leadership to reach the first lanks. Throughout his time in prison, he dedicated serious and considerable efforts to educating and strengthening his fellow comrades, especially the newer comrades, and worked with his comrades to strengthen the prison branch organization.
Comrade Bilal worked to educate himself and wrote on a variety of organizational, intellectual and political topics, and organized classes for fellow prisoners on a number of topics. He did not hesitate for a single moment from joining on multiple occasions in the battles of empty stomach, participating in all of the collective hunger strikes during his time in prison, including those of 2004, 2011 and 2012, as well as strikes in solidarity with administrative detainees.
With the declaration of Comrade Bilal of an open hunger strike to protest his administrative detention order and the sole demand his unconditional release, the Prison Branch and its hundreds of members who are the friends and comrades of Bilal, are at the heart of this battle. It will not give up its comrades and its leaders to fight such a battle alone and will not retreat even an inch in the face of the prison administration and its injustices.
The PFLP prison organization has accumulated a long experience in dealing with Zionist crimes against the prisoners, especially isolation and solitary confinement. We cannot but recall the battle led by this organization, the strike of 2011, which reaped rewards with the other factions and fellow prisoners in the 2012 strike to win release of the isolated from solitary confinement, led by Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat, PFLP General Secretary, as well as the family visits for prisoners from Gaza and a number of other demands.
The PFLP prison organization launched a battle in support of Comrade Bilal on June 14, which will escalate until the beginning of July, to take the form of an open hunger strike for most of the imprisoned comrades, and will continue this battle with determination and revolutionary resolve to break the chains of our comrade Bilal and see him returned to his family, loved ones, village, and the arms of the people.
In this context, we emphasize the importance of the media and of mass organizations in supporting this battle, and our comrades trust and appreciate this effort and encourage them to continue activities to achieve the objectives of this battle.
Our comrades know through experience that in carrying out this battle, the time for victory is linked inexorably to the popular support for this special and urgent struggle.
Kamil Abu Hanish and Wael Jaghoub
Ramon Prison
 