
Founder of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, speaking to the Palestinian people on the occasion of the 34th anniversary of the founding of the Popular Front and on the anniversary of the intifada.
To our steadfast people:
As I open these remarks of mine, on the occasion of the anniversary of the founding of the Popular Front and the anniversary of the intifada and the beginning of the contemporary Palestinian revolution, allow me to say that any talk, however elevated, cannot suffice and cannot rise to the level of a great event made by our people in the intifada and resistance struggle. It is an event of a new type that represents the making of freedom and independence, completing and continuing a historic effort of contemporary revolutions and intifadas proceeding until the desired goal of national and human liberation is reached and Arab unity is achieved.
Allow me, as I begin, to convey my most sincere esteem to the families of the martyrs of the intifada, and to all those who have sacrificed on its altar. I salute the martyrs of the mass uprisings in the areas of Palestine occupied in 1948 who have taken part, since it first flared up, in the Aqsa intifada – an intifada of lovers of freedom and independence. Is there any nobler goal, any more elevated goal, than this human symbol representing the liberation from slavery, colonial occupation, and Zionist darkness?
On this occasion I would like to convey my greetings to the prisoners and detainees in the Israeli prisons and dungeons. They also dream of the spacious sky of freedom. The prisoner also awaits the one who will break his shackles so that he will be liberated. I would like to convey my greetings to every Palestinian child who lives the daily suffering under the occupation. Our children have left their childhood in the maws of confrontation with the terrorism of the Zionist occupation; they are the children of refuge in the camps of exiled dispersion who dream of a free homeland and a bright tomorrow. On this occasion I do not forget to stand with my head bowed before the mothers of the martyrs, before each militant Palestinian woman. Their sufferings are palpable. But what strengthens our hope is that the Palestinian woman has always proven that she is the most enduring and most giving on this path of struggle. Allow me to salute you all, the children of my militant, steadfast people, you who give all that is most dear on the path of the homeland, Palestine.
On the anniversary of the founding of the PFLP, we say good bye to another year of suffering and we greet a new year with the spirit of challenge, determination, and will. We remember the past, we wage the battle of the present, and we think and plan for the horizons of the future of Palestine. We remember the martyred children who fell a few days ago while on their way to school. We remember the martyrs of the Arab Nation who fell on the path of Palestine, and the martyrs of movements for liberation around the world who dreamed and worked for the better future and the bright tomorrow.
Sons and daughters of our people, it is very important at this exacting stage that we delineate our tasks and how to confront all the dangers that threaten the intifada or that seek to detract from the just and historic rights of the Palestinian people, and also how to confront the vicious, terrorist, Sharonist, Zionist assault. As Palestinians we must always affirm that unity of political vision is the only sound basis of national unity. Here it is helpful to specify what is needed for the true political unity that brings us together on national bases and principles. Unity means internal democracy. It means participation in political decision making and implementation. Specificity and clarity in this key matter is the guarantee and will keep us close to our fixed principles. For the intifada has drawn clear horizons for the Palestinian goals, and to protect the intifada is to protect these goals and legitimate rights, and to reject the American vision of a solution that is seen with Israeli eyes.
I want to affirm here that the goal of a Palestinian state is linked with free people and presupposes complete and undiminished national sovereignty, and real sovereignty cannot be tied to or concerned with the security of the occupying state. Limitations and conditions imposed from the outside serve to eradicate our just rights, both as we perceive them and as defined by resolutions of international legality. It is necessary here to stress the demand that these resolutions of international legality be implemented with respect to a settlement, to the provision of international protection to our people, and to the transfer of the file on the Palestine problem from the sphere of American’s exclusive control to a field where there is active international participation, i.e., the convening of an international conference that imposes on the occupation an immediate withdrawal and the unconditional and unlimited dismantling and removal of the settlements.
A phenomenon that breeds hope, like the heroic intifada, is in its essence the rising of the people, all of them together. It leads to the idea that Palestine will be made anew according to the means chosen by the people of the intifada. The resistance and the struggle against the occupation are the truest statements of the existence of Palestine on its land.
We find that the feature most firmly rooted in the intifada is our proven ability to withstanding the test of time. The fruitless reliance on the negotiating table for seven years after the agreement of humiliation and shame was signed at Oslo have not brought the desired solution. The intifada boldly answered the essential question of independence based on complete and undiminished national sovereignty.
The second task is to preserve all of the gains won by the activity of the intifada and the legitimate resistance – as elements of the strategic vision that is implicit in the protection of the intifada – and its continuation, development and re-enforcement with a defensive program of action, rather than tying it to any Israeli-American dictates or conditions. American global hegemony is still imposing its image of a solution. I want to emphasize here that in addition to the new challenges, there is a real danger represented by the demands of some for a halt to the intifada to make concessions to the Israeli-American conspirators whose primary objective is to circumvent the intifada. The most important goal to which we must cling in the coming stage is the issue of refugees’ right to return to their homes in villages and towns long ago overrun by the Zionist aggressors. And we must remain firm on the need to withdraw all foreign settlements and then to establish a Palestinian state established with Jerusalem as its capital.
What is now being called an American initiative, presented by Secretary of State Powell, does nothing but throw dust in our people’s eyes. It is surrounded by vagueness. There is no new vision in the initiative, only the consecration of American hegemony and its sole control over any solution. This brings us to formulate the question anew: where are we going? Where is the path? What is needed in the coming stage is to confront the external challenges and to purge Palestinian political rhetoric of vagueness and to link Palestinian political decisions to widespread, popular participation. The Palestine Authority’s institutions must be purged of corruption, and all Palestinian forces must participate and have political representation in the institutions of the Palestine Liberation Organization. These objectives require Palestinian society to be more consolidated and more firmly united in awareness of changing circumstances and in continually undertaking to raise the level of the intifada.
The third task is supporting and coordinating with the struggles of our Palestinian people in the areas occupied in 1948 – Galilee, the Triangle, the Negev -and with the democratic political forces there. We affirm that the battle will be waged for the Arab Palestinian identity of our people, continuing the resistance to Israeli racism and all attempts to absorb and Israelize our people.
On the Arab level it is imperative to reaffirm our commitment to achieving solidarity among the Arab masses, who represent our strategic depth and the breath of support for the intifada. We recognize that there has been a clear retreat on this level, a fact that requires all Arab forces and political parties to deal openly and unhesitatingly with each other. Popular Arab activity constitutes a form of pressure on the official Arab regimes to solidify their rhetoric and in the process be reminded of their responsibilities at this difficult stage of our libertation. The effort to arouse the Arabs to take a stand in the face of the American Zionist attack on the intifada is one of the most important conditions for our victory.
Internationally, it is important to confirm that we support the increasing number of movements openly demonstrating opposition to globalism. These movements can provide tremendous support for the just demands of people like our own who are still suffering from various forms of colonialism and American hegemony. The Palestinian people are concerned, more than at any time in the past, with integrating themselves into this vision of opposition to the globalism spearheaded by American imperialism and thereby permanently aligned with Israel. Here the importance stands out for us to take the initiative in coordinating with forces around the planet that express solidarity with the Palestinian struggle, in particular the non-governmental, humanitarian, and human rights organizations, and to work to create an international atmosphere in which there is greater understanding of the demands of the Palestinian people.
Freedom and independence for the Palestinian people requires the end of the occupation. What is needed now is to continue the intifada and the legitimate resistance until we attain freedom and independence, expel the occupation, and put an end to Israeli terrorism. Let us continue the battle, united for Palestine, the homeland and the people.
Always for the revolution, the intifada, freedom, and independence,
Your comrade,
Dr. George Habash
Founder of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
11 December 2001
 