
The branch of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine inside Israeli prisons issued the following statement on November 24, from behind the bars of the Zionist jails :
To the struggling Palestinian masses, who struggle for the sake of freedom…
To the free people of the world…
We call on you through this statement in a time when our cause is facing difficult circumstances and conditions at all levels and in all areas. We face a time when the Zionist aggression and repression continues and escalates against our people in various areas, especially against our people in Jerusalem and Gaza, and more recently through the legislative targeting of our people in occupied Palestine 1948 attacking and undermining their existence.
This coincides with the escalating attack by the fascist so-called prison service management against the Palestinian political prisoners under various pretexts and justifications, including prohibiting all reactions in response to the actions of the right-wing government. For some time, they have been attempting to attack the steadfastness of the prisoners through decisions and laws in the recent period, especially following the declaration of war against the prisoners since mid-June. Since that time, we are facing a severe campaign of repression, harassment and punishment impacting all aspects of our captive lives.
The denial of family visits and lengthening the time between one visit and another have prevented prisoners from seeing their loved ones and relatives. In addition, limiting the amount of money a prisoner may have in his or her “canteen” (prison commissary) account to 400 NIS only, which is insufficient to provide the most basic needs, particularly in light of brutal price increases in the canteen. In addition, the prison authorities have cut the number of satellite channels in the prisons, allowing three only: two Hebrew channels, the Zionist Channel 2 and 10, and Al-Arabiya news. All of this is apparently not enough; this has been followed by large night-time raids by heavily armed forces and repressive campaigns waged by special units like the “Massada” unit that murdered political prisoner Mohammed al-Ashqar in 2007 in Negev prison.
To the progressive and democratic forces of the world, we call on you to redouble your efforts to support our just cause, and to expose all the policies of the occupation and its institutions against our people.
 