
The following statement was issued in solidarity with socialist Irish republicans gathering on the anniversary of the 1916 Irish rising in Bray, county Wicklow, Ireland on April 15: 
On the 101st anniversary of the 1916 Easter Rising, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine salutes the Irish people’s struggle for liberation and against British colonialism. We greet all of those involved in the continuing Irish struggle for national liberation and socialism in a united, liberated Ireland.
The Irish liberation struggle and the Palestinian liberation struggle mark important anniversaries around this century of struggle. Together, we commemorate the battle against British colonialism. As British colonization has devastated, divided and repressed the Irish people over the centuries, the Palestinian people mark in 2017 a century of struggle against British colonization.
The British Mandate over Palestine included the issuance of the so-called Balfour Declaration on 2 November 1917, promising the land of the Palestinian people to the European, colonialist, racist Zionist movement. British colonization also introduced “administrative detention” to Palestine – the imprisonment without charge or trial that the Zionist occupation continues to use today against Palestinian strugglers – as internment continues to be a menace against Irish strugglers in the North.
Throughout these years since 1916 and 1917, thousands of Irish and Palestinian lives have been taken by the colonizers and oppressors, as the Irish and Palestinian liberation movements have continued to struggle for freedom and liberation.
Throughout these years, thousands of prisoners have passed through colonialist and Zionist jails. The struggles of Irish and Palestinian political prisoners have been ones of heroism, resistance and great struggle that continues to inspire the entire liberation movements today. The hunger strikes – and the prisoner martyrs – of the Irish prisoners have inspired Palestinian prisoners’ struggle, and vice versa. Today, there are over 7,000 Palestinian political prisoners in Israeli jails including our General Secretary, Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat.
We reiterate our call for the liberation of all Palestinian and Irish political prisoners and for the building of our collective movements to support the prisoners’ struggle as a critical part of the struggle for national liberation.
On this occasion, we salute the martyrs of Ireland and Palestine and honor their struggle over 100 years of resistance. Together, our people continue to march forward, for return, unity, liberation and socialism, for a liberated, united Ireland and a liberated, united Palestine from the river to the sea.
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
April 15, 2017
 