
On May 15, marking 66 years of the Zionist entity occupying the land of Palestine, the Palestinian Youth Organization salutes the steadfast Palestinian people in the occupied lands of 1948 who have for 66 years constantly confronted all forms of Judaization and racism practiced by the Zionist entity, and the “Jewish state” project for which the Zionist state insists upon attempting to extort recognition from the international community, the Arab states and the Palestinian Authority. We affirm the ferocity of the fierce battle faced by the Palestinian people in general and our people in the occupied homeland in particular, and salute our people in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip and in refugee camps throughout the Arab world.
The struggle of the Palestinian people against the Zionist occupation and settlement continues, despite its attempts to liquidate the refugees’ cause and to Judaize Jerusalem, taking advantage of the fractious Arab situation and Palestinian division which have weakened the role of the resistance against the racist entity.
Returning to the roots of the Palestinian revolution is the basis for our renewal of struggle and resistance against the Zionist project. Resistance and revolutionary struggle is the only way to restore our rights, and sweep aside the entity occupying our homeland Palestine. There can be no reconciliation, no negotiations and no recognition with this entity.
Returning to our revolutionary roots also means upholding the right of return of the Palestinian people, expelled from their land in 1948, and ending all forms of negotiations and security coordination with the Zionist security forces. Returning to our revolutionary roots also means returning to the Fedayeen, and upholding the guerillas at the forefront of struggle.
Yes to Palestinian revolution! The youth are the leaders and hold high the banner of return and liberation!
Freedom for the prisoners and detainees in the Zionist prisons, at the forefront General Secretary Ahmad Sa’adat. Victory to the Revolution!
 