
Comrade Rabah Muhanna, member of the Political Bureau of the PFLP, said that the criminal attacks against the Egyptian soldiers in Sinai fit into the Zionist plan, aimed at straining the relationship between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Palestinian people at a memoriaal service for the Egyptian martyrs organized by Palestinian factions in Gaza. Hundreds of Palestinians attended the memorial, held at the Red Crescent hall in Gaza City, to express solidarity with the Egyptian people.
Comrade Jamil Mizher, member of the Central Committee of the PFLP, said that the heinous crime committed against Egyptian soldiers in Sinai bears the hallmarks of Zionism and an attempt to disrupt the relationship between the Egyptian and Palestinian people, considering that Egyptians have always stood beside the Palestinian people and supported by all means. Mizher emphasized in an interview with Voice of the People radio that the information and warnings distributed by the Zionist occupation prior to the incident do not indicate that it is innocent, especially as it is always trying to tamper with Arab countries and their relations, and is always trying in every way to place a wedge in Egyptian-Palestinian relations, particularly following the Egyptian revolution and changes that have been to the benefit of the Palestinian people and their cause.
Mizher emphasized that Zionist forces always try to download upon the Palestinian people and the Gaza Strip the responsibility for everything that goes on in the region. He said that the fingers of Zionist intelligence and the Mossad are not far from this terrorist operation, which seeks to drive a wedge, damage relations, and tighten the grip of the siege on our people, and undermine all attempts from Egyptian leadership to lift the siege on the Palestinian people.
He noted that the occupation wants, at this moment, at which time the progress in Egypt promises to lift the siege, to scramble the cards and disrupt progess. He said that a message must be delivered to the Zionist occupation, that the Palestinian people will not be harmed in the Gaza Strip, and the Zionist occupation will not maintain the unjust siege imposed on Gaza by such actions. He expressed his condolences on behalf of the Popular Front to the Egyptian people, leadership and army, noting the great sacrifices made over history by Egyptians for the Palestinian cause.
Asked about the closure of tunnels in Rafah, Mizher pointed out that the reason for the tunnels is to lift the siege on Gaza, saying that our people don’t seek to continue the use of tunnels indefinitely, but that it is an important factor in supporting the steadfastness of the Palestinian people in light of the lack of basic materials in the Strip. The alternative, he pointed out, is to open the Rafah crossing for people and goods, emphasizing that the Egyptian and Palestinian people can work together to end the siege – and then we will not need the tunnels.
 
 
 
 