
Comrade Abu Ahmad Fuad, deputy General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and Comrade Abu Sami Marwan, member of the Political Bureau of the PFLP, met with a US delegation to Syria, which arrived in Damascus on Tuesday. The delegation was headed by Ramsey Clark, former US Attorney General, and included US leftist activists and leaders, including former member of Congress Cynthia McKinnery and Sara Flounders, director of the International Action Center in New York City.
The meeting was convened at the request of the US delegation, which was eager to meet with the leadership of the Front and exchange political positions regarding the ongoing developments in Palestine and the region. The PFLP leaders discussed the nature of the US/Zionist aggression against the people of the region, their intervention in Syria and the attempts of colonial powers to impose their hegemony by force and military aggression, through division of the land and people, and by pushing the region into sectarian or religious conflict.
This US policy is nothing new, noted the Front’s leaders, but is the ongoing manifestation of US imperialism in the interests of the Zionist state, the US and European corporations. The Front noted that the colonial powers have waged an ongoing war against the Arab people to prevent any real progress for the region on the road to liberation, self-determination and an end to Zionist occupation. The daily crimes committed by the Zionist enemy against our people in occupied Palestine are one of the main aspects of this Zionist/imperialist campaign that must be confronted on an international level, they said.
The US delegation discussed the urgent need for building ongoing solidarity with Palestine in the United States and internationally, in particular to confront the deep involvement of the United States – militarily, politically and financially – in the crimes of the occupier, and to end its attacks on Syria, Iraq and the people of the entire region.
The delegates noted that there is a colonial scheme to divide and re-partition the region according to the interests of major corporations and imperial powers, targeting the resources of the people, sometimes through blatant political interference in the affairs of the region and other times through wars and military attacks on states and peoples.
Ramsey Clark thanked the leadership of the PFLP for meeting with the delegation, emphasizing the delegates’ political agreement with the vision and analysis presented by the Front’s leaders in the meeting. The two sides emphasized the importance of communication between the Palestinian Arab left and progressive and democratic forces in the United States to confront Zionism and imperialism in the US and in Palestine alike.
 