
Comrade Dr. Rabah Muhanna, member of the Political Bureau of the PFLP, stressed that the Front will continue to adhere to liberating all of historic Palestine, from the river to the sea, and will never recognize Israel. At an event in Gaza City marking the 45th anniversary of the founding of the Front on December 10, Muhanna emphasized the centrality of the right of return to the project of the liberation of Palestine.
The event was opened by Comrade Shireen Abu Oun, and included the participation of Comrade Leila Khaled, resistance icon and member of the Political Bureau of the Front, currently visiting Gaza as part of the Front’s 45th anniversary events.
Muhanna recalled the recent brutal Zionist aggression against Gaza, including the assassination of Ezzedine al-Qassam Brigades leader Ahmad al-Ja’bari, massive fire on Gaza from land, sea and air, and numerous massacres of civilians, including children and elderly and entire families, and attacks on public buildings and homes. He saluted the response of Palestinians in the West Bank and in exile and diaspora, saying that resistance to the occupation unites all Palestinians to confront the enemy.
He noted that the steadfastness and resistance of the Palestinian people prevented the enemy from achieving its objectives in this war and that this must be maintained, noting that recent agreements for “calm” came under American auspices, and it is well known that the U.S. is the Zionist state’s key strategic ally, warning that the U.S. and Israel will attempt to achieve their goals through “negotiations” and “diplomacy” that failed through war.
He saluted all of the resistance factions for their outstanding resilience and struggle, commending the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades for their contribution to the resistance to the aggression. Muhanna saluted Palestinians in homeland and diaspora and all of the prisoners in Israeli jails, led by Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat, the imprisoned General Secretary of the Front. He thanked Comrade Leila Khaled, saying that her presence confirms the unity forged in resistance of our people in Gaza, the West Bank, ’48 and the diaspora.
This event followed upon a rally in northern Gaza near the home of the martyr Comrade Naim Kafarneh in Beit Hanoun. Comrade Leila Khaled spoke saying that the Palestinian people are united behind the resistance, our resistance is legitimate as long as the occupation is on our land, and we will not be frightened by terrorism – Zionist terrorism and American terrorism. She said that the military achievements of our people’s resistance must be accompanied by political struggle and achievement, in order to build on the courage and accomplishments of the resistance.
Leila Khaled warned against any attmepts to bargain with the rights of 8 million Palestinian refugees, emphasizing that the blood of the martyrs which was shed to realize this right will not have been spilled in vain. She addressed the crowd, saying “your people in diaspora celebrated the victory of resistance as you registered epic determination. The land of Gaza is the land of Palestine, and in this battle of epic steadfastness and resistance, we did not merely hear children crying and asking for help, or women screaming and finding no solace. We heard the sounds of pride, of resistance, of steadfastness. This is not the first battle and will not be the last in our great and long term struggle; the aggression of the occupation has lasted since before the Nakba to the present moment.”
“We do not expect to win in one battle,” she said, “but we fight on from generation to generation. We are the generation of the Nakba … We tell all martyrs we are still committed to the testament and your blood will not be wasted. I tell all prisoners, you are our heroes who lit the light for us to Haifa, Jaffa and Akka. This is what I have learned from the PFLP and from the determination and resistance of our people.”
She said that the occupation attempted to destroy our resistance and continually targets Palestinain steadfastness with siege and destruction. “This is an enemy we know well, they want to destroy our camps because the camp is the Palestinian identity that produced heroes and martyrs, a witness to the crime of the world against our people when it agreed to the presence of a cruel, aggressive, fanatic racist entity on our homeland.” Khaled said we do not accept that this criminal enemy remains on our land and said that in all circumstances the resistance must keep its hand ready on the trigger. She demanded that Palestinian leaders reconcile, and end all negotiations and security coordination with Israel.
“The Palestinian people didn’t struggle for two governments — one in the West Bank and one in Gaza — but for one homeland, the right to return and independence,” said Khaled. Addressing the Palestinian leadership,  “you must listen to your people who united in marches and protests in all places and revolted in 48 areas and the West Bank, they revolted in refugee camps and the right of return for them became closer that they expected.”
She sent greetings to jailed PFLP leader Ahmad Saadat: “You will come out to freedom, you and all prisoners. We are determined to follow your path and the path of our founder, George Habash and Abu Ali Mustafa and before them Wadi Haddad and Ghassan Kanafani.”
 
 
 
 