
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine in Gaza issued a statement on July 10, describing the heinous crimes committed by the Zionist occupation forces in the Gaza Strip as a war of overall aggression which exceeds all limits of logic and humanity. It called for the resistance factions to escalate strikes in each areas, including rockets and missiles, to compel the occupying entity to pay a price for its aggression.
The occupation forces are escalating their attacks on Gaza, including bombing and demolishing family homes inhabited by children, women and elders, targeting journalists, the latest of which was the assassination of journalist Hamdi Shehab yesterday, targeting medical personnel and ambulances, health centers and hospitals. All of this reflects the state of bankruptcy which the criminal enemy has reached, its confusion and inability to confront the resistance.
The Front denounced the extreme official Arab silence and international indifference in the face of the destruction in the Gaza Strip, asking if the bodies of women, children and elders pulled from under the rubble of destroyed homes are not sufficient to spark the conscience of international humanitarian agencies and the world, and promising that their Palestinian blood will not have been shed in vain.
The Front dismissed the emergency hearing of the Security Council called by the Arab Group, noting that it comes far too late, after over 80 martyrs and thousands of wounded, the destruction of homes and infrastructure, urging real international action to hold the occupation state accountable for its crimes.
The Front also renewed its call for the necessity of the leadership in power in the PLO to join the International Criminal Court and seek to bring the criminal enemy to trial for its crimes committed against the Palestinian people. Continued postponement is a betrayal of the blood of the martyrs.
The Front also reaffirmed the unity of our people in all locations against the horrific Zionist attack, calling on our people in the West Bank to take to the streets and escalate confrontation against the occupation army and settlers, and for the military wings of the armed resistance there to move to strike the occupation everywhere. Further, it called upon all members of Palestinian security agencies to reject the constraints and obligations of Oslo and instead join the Palestinian people to confront the occupier and protect the people.
07/10/2014
 