
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine in Gaza City received a leftist Italian delegation in solidarity with the Palestinian people on Tuesday, December 29, where they met with leaders and cadres of the Front, including Political Bureau member Comrade Jamil Mizher, leader of the Front’s branch in Gaza.
Mizher began the meeting by greeting the delegation on behalf of the imprisoned General Secretary of the Front, Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat, and the cadres and leaders of the Front, praising the delegation for their efforts and work to enter Gaza in order to express the popular solidarity of the Italian people for the Palestinian cause. In particular, he emphasized the importance of international solidarity with the Palestinian cause, particularly from the progressive and leftist forces of the world and in Italy, to support the Palestinian people at all levels, examine the reality of the situation in Palestine and document the crimes and practices of Zionism against the Palestinian people.
This important role played by international solidarity should be strengthened through cooperation with the Palestinian national liberation movement and in particular with the Popular Front, which shares a common vision of radical transformation, anti-racism, anti-colonialism, and liberation with revolutionary and progressive movements internationally.
Mizher reviewed the history and political orientation of the Front and its commitment to confronting Zionist occupation and struggle by all means. He addressed the current situation of the Palestinian people, especially in Gaza, where Palestinians are subject to a continuous Zionist blockade, three devastating wars which caused serious deterioration in living, economic and social conditions, ongoing Zionist attacks, supplemented by Palestinian internal division.
Discussing the current intifada, Mizher said that the Palestinian youth leading the uprising are organizing themselves but are also not isolated or separate from the political parties and factions; many of the most active young people are deeply involved in the Palestinian parties. In particular, he noted that the Front and its cadres are engaged in the intifada and confrontations with the occupation everywhere and has given dozens of martyrs and hundreds of wounded and prisoners.
On the political level, Mizher noted that the Front has presented an initiative to all national and Islamic factions to work together to protect the Intifada and encourage its development and sustainability through ending the Oslo agreement, restoring national unity, establishing a unified national leadership and supporting the steadfastness of the Palestinian people at a grassroots level; he noted that despite this initiative the two major parties – Fateh and Hamas – have declined to respond or address this issue.
He also denounced the attacks by the Palestinian Authority security forces in the West Bank on Palestinian demonstrators as an attempt to stop the intifada, most recently the suppression of a march in Ramallah heading to Beit El to confront the occupation soldiers, noting that such practices indicate that the Authority is in one valley and the people are in another entirely as it continues on the path of security coordination, broadly rejected by the vast majority of the Palestinian people.
Mizher noted that the internal Palestinian division has led to deterioration in the Palestinian political front and social fabric, as well as the position of the Palestinian struggle in the international arena, and that the Front is committed to working to build national unity on the basis of struggle for liberation. He also noted that the Front is working to address the situation in the Gaza Strip, including working to open the Rafah crossing through joint proposals with other Palestinian factions and the national and Islamic forces.
He denounced the role of the United States and Arab reactionary regimes in Syria, noting that the Front has stood against their intervention in Syrian affairs and that the Syrian people will decide their own destiny and leadership. There is an aggressive attack on Syria and its people being pushed by these forces to dismantle Syria itself as a state in order to serve the goals of imperialism and the Zionist project in the region.
Addressing the role of Russia in the region, Mizher noted that Russia’s interests are first and foremost its own national interests, but that these interests coincide with opposing a unipolar world centered around US interests. For people and movements confronting US imperialism, the emergence of multiple poles of power in the world is important to create a counter-balance of power to the nexus of US imperialism and Zionism and open space for struggle, said Mizher.
Mizher urged progressive forces in the world to unite their efforts to confront imperialist crimes and globalization and urged further joint cooperation between the Front and international progressive parties, including through the exchange of delegations, joint activities and cultural efforts.
In turn, the coordinator of the delegation, Italian solidarity activist Comrade Teo praised the history and struggle of the Front on the Palestinian and international levels, noting the historic relationship between Italian leftists and the Front. He noted that there is widespread solidarity in Italy with the Palestinian people and that despite the difficulties of the Italian left in recent years, it has continued to support the palestinian struggle.
He noted that progressive and left forces in Italy and in Europe see the Palestinian and Kurdish peoples as two peoples struggling for liberation, land and freedom. He also noted the need to strengthen the relationship with the PFLP at all levels.
At the end of the meeting it was agreed that the Italian solidarity delegation would hold further meetings with the women’s, youth and labor organizations associated with the Front in order to strengthen cooperation and joint action.
 