
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine said on March 9, 2012 that it is clear that resistance must be the path forward, particularly in light of the massacres and assassinations in Gaza. The PFLP, on behalf of its General Secretary, leadership and cadres saluted the martyrs Zuhair Qaisi (Abu Ibrahim) and Mahmoud Hanani, and all of the martyrs who were slain in the coming day during the brutal aggression on the Gaza Strip.
The Front expressed its deepest condolences to the Palestinian people and the families of the martyrs, promising to continue to struggle until liberation is achieved, saying that their deaths will not be in vain. The PFLP expressed that it is clear that the resistance approach is correct, pledging to adhere firmly to resistance in light of the escalating aggression of the Zionist occupation against our people.
The PFLP also called upon the people of the world to express their solidarity with Gaza and the Palestinian people and their indignation at the ongoing war crimes of the occupation, in defiance of the people of the world who have come out time and again for Palestine and demanding accountability for occupation war criminals.
Once again, said the Front, the occupation chooses the road of oppression, massacre and murder, and attempts to subdue our people by force. The Front said that this has been confirmed repeatedly throughout the history of our struggle, making it clear that the occupier does not care about the international community, its decisions, or so-called “peace negotiations” and understands only the language of fire and power. The conflict, said the Front, is open with the occupier – and it will end with liberation, independence, self-determination and return.
The Front said that this escalation is the implementation of the occupation’s policy that has existed throughout history, attacking the symbols of resistance and the leaders of our people. This also comes alongside the escalation of occupation attacks in Jerusalem and al-Khalil, in conjunction with the visit of the head of the occupation state to the United States.
The PFLP confirmed that the crimes of the occupation will only generate more blows by the resistance and will only increase our determination to adhere to resistance as the only option to confront the usurping occupier.
 