
Comrade Zulfiqar Sweirjo, member of the Central Committee of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, addressed the mass solidarity rally in support of the Palestinian people in Paris, France on August 2, 2014, via phone live from bombarded Gaza. The massive mobilization in Paris, following on multiple rallies of tens of thousands, and the banning and attacks of several demonstrations in Paris by police, brought an estimated 40,000 to the streets in a march to demand an end to the bombardment of Gaza, support the Palestinian people and their resistance, and demand an end to French and European imperial complicity in the war on the Palestinian people.
Video:

Comrade Sweirjo’s speech translated into English:
To the free Palestinian people, to the free people of the Arab community, to the free people of France, I salute you today from the Gaza Strip, steadfast Gaza, struggling Gaza. I salute you from the land of Palestine, the land of dignity and of resistance.
Gaza is today the compass of free men and women and of revolutionaries. As I speak to you now, I am in the midst of ruins, torrents of blood, the screams of the wounded and the suffering of mothers.
As I speak, missiles and bursts of fire fall from the sky. Despite this, I tell you – we are fine, our strength is holding out, our people are still resilient and our united front is confronting one of the largest war machines created in history.
We are not fighting only Israel, but we are also fighting the US aircraft, missiles from the so-called free world and tons of bombs falling on us. We fight the official green light from Europe allowing Israel to kill innocent children and women. We are fighting the Arab inaction, and we are fighting the Arab official conspiracy against our pure resistance ..
But we are not alone, all free people of the world are with us, as you are today in France, in Europe, in the USA and around the world ..
We expect that you break the wall of silence and injustice and denounce the alliance with the executioner at the expense of the victim, who stands on the side of right…
The so-called free world is distorting reality, prohibiting a victim from defending himself from the assassin who practices all kinds of massacres, one who is committing another holocaust in front of the world, as it kills children, women and old men.
It destroyed houses over our heads without warning, it bombards the schools as they fly the blue flags of UNRWA. It bombarded ambulances and hospitals, it bombards physicians and every developed place in the Gaza Strip.
Our many wounded and martyrs were left to their fate without rescuers, without doctors, without hospitals … The occupier bombed the only power station in Gaza. Gaza has returned to the stone age, without electricity, without water. We live in the worst conditions imaginable for a human being …
And despite all this, we decided as a resistance, our resistance is unified, to overcome injustice and modern technology with our will, our commitment, our right to life and to be free of occupation, oppression and the injustice committed by the imperialist coalition against the poor and oppressed of the world.
Thank you for your solidarity, children of the French revolution, successors of Che Guevara, Martin Luther King and Mahatma Gandhi. Justice for all the oppressed and the poor of the earth ..
No to the policy of genocide, bring down the new Zionist Nazis, and yes to the criminal prosecution of the criminal Zionist leaders for war crimes. Yes, to the prosecution and judgment of all of the governments involved in the murder of children of the Palestinian people, at the forefront the United States and your own unjust government!
Long live the resistance, Long live Palestine! It is a revolution until victory, and we will remain faithful to this slogan. Thank you for your support, and we expect that you will break the wall of silence and truth will prevail in the world. We are experiencing a massive injustice and distortion of reality, orchestrated by the international imperialist coalition who are exacting a terrible punishment upon the Palestinian people.
 
 