
On the 27th anniversary of the martyrdom of the legend of the interrogation rooms, Ibrahim al-Rai (Abu Al-Muntasser). After more than ten months in continuous solitary confinement, interrogation and torture, Comrade Al-Rai was assassinated by his Zionist jailers in captivity, in the interrogation cells, on April 11, 1988. He did not give one word, nor one confession, to the jailers and torturers. He inspired a generation of Palestinian militants inside the prisons who refused to confess, who strengthened their steadfastness and sumoud, to meet the example of resistance and revolutionary commitment personified by Ibrahim al-Rai, a leader and a struggler in all aspects of revolutionary Palestinian work, in direct confrontation and in the organizing of Palestinian workers and students. The call, “Resist, resist, like al-Rai under interrogation,” has remained an inspiration and a clarion call for 27 years and will always be so, until liberation. 
The following statement was issued by the PFLP in Qalqilya, marking this anniversary:
On this anniversary, the imperialist powers are still represented by the United States of America and its allies, with all of their power and their might directed against our rights and the rights of the Arab nation to be free and live with dignity, amid attacks and interventions against the Arab people in Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Yemen…
With the escalation of the fierce Zionist attack against the Palestinian national cause, the theft of our land and settlement construction; the Judaization – the Zionization – of Jerusalem; the increasing arrests of our comrades and our Palestinian people, including the most recent arrest of the national leader and struggler, Comrade Khalida Jarrar; the attacks against our brave prisoners in the Zionist jails facing repression, unjust trials and deliberate medical neglect, the martyrdom of dozens of prisoners, including the most recent yesterday, the martyred freed prisoner Jaafar Awad; this requires all of us as forces and factions of the national movement to act and respond commensurate to the Zionist arrogance and assault on our national rights to return, to freedom, to liberate Palestine.
On this anniversary, we see our heroic Palestinian people, struggling in all fields and arenas, in clashes and in every aspect of daily life, in the camps and in the battles, to defend their existence, constantly and creatively developing their own methods of struggle in defense of their rights.
The leader, Comrade Ibrahim al-Rai, struggling in the darkest and most difficult circumstances, isolated and subject to all forms of torture, was willing to sacrifice his own life, to face death at the hands of the executioners, rather than speak one word to give up or betray his party, his comrades or his people. He exemplified commitment, dedication and sacrifice of himself, in order to protect the vision of liberation and the rights of his people. His example is one of steadfast confrontation, who refused to break in the interrogation rooms, and who has inspired generations of revolutionaries in their commitment to steadfastness, to refuse to confess to the Zionists, and who pledge to continue to carry on his path, fighting the Zionists everywhere until every inch of the land of Palestine is liberated.
 