
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) considers the Arab League’s designation of Hezbollah as “terrorist” as an aggressive act against the entire Arab nation that reflects the hegemony of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia over the decisions and policies within the Arab League. It also confirms the Arab League’s submission to the dictates of U.S. imperialism and Zionism.
This attack on the axis of resistance in the region reflects U.S. and Zionist decisions and interests and reveals the true intentions of the Arab reactionary regimes against the resistance movements and popular forces rejecting Zionist and U.S. domination of the region from the ocean to the Gulf. The Saudi Kingdom threatens to drag the region to war and devastation and is pouring yet more oil on the fire of sectarian destruction.
The Front said that there are no legitimate decisions to be recognized from an Arab League that expels Syria, justifies war crimes in Yemen, threatens Lebanon and remains silent on the blockade of Gaza. It has lost its role, function and objectives and even its official rhetoric about development and independence.
The PFLP also considered that the decisions taken by the Arab League yesterday are also not isolated from the Saudi rapprochement and coordination with the Zionist entity, which have accelerated in recent weeks and have become more public in a direct relationship with the American plan to fast-track a “settlement” through the so-called “Deal of the Century” pushed by the United States that aims to liquidate the Palestinian Cause.
The PFLP also condemned the official position of the Palestinian Authority, which expressed agreement with the Saudi war on Yemen and support for the position of the Arab League yesterday, emphasizing that this does not reflect the positions and principles of the Palestinian nation.
The Front demanded that Arab states sever their relations with the Zionist enemy, especially Cairo and Amman, and that they dismantle all agreements with this criminal colonizer, and to confront all of the normalization efforts carried out on official and unofficial Arab levels. The Front also urged the Arab countries to open a bilateral, collective dialogue with the Islamic Republic of Iran to resolve differences productively rather than through bullying with the so-called “international community” against the Iranian people.
The Front concluded by saluting the Yemeni people and their legitimate struggle and cause. The Yemeni people have never stopped giving all their support and their blood to the Palestinian people and participating in the just struggle against the Zionist entity and its agents. The war of the so-called “Arab alliance” against Yemen is a part of the American and Zionist war against the resistance in the region and serves only Zionist and U.S. imperialist objectives to control the region.
 