
Important statement issued by prisoners of the Popular Front in the prisons of the occupation
May the Jerusalem uprising spread throughout the nation and confront the next stage
Our steadfast people in Jerusalem, our eternal capital..
Salutes to you as you continue the process of uprising and sacrifice with a revolutionary spirit and continuous escalation and confrontation of the occupation’s aggression and resistance. The occupation has turned the city into a closed military barracks, but you have consistently confronted these actions and the systematic and open war on Jerusalem through which the occupation tries to cement its control and imposition of facts on the ground. You have challenged the most recent actions of the fascist occupation, coming in the wake of the heroic operation in the area of Al-Aqsa, including the installation of electronic gates at the gates of Al-Aqsa Mosque. We are certain that you will break these gates and you will continue your heroic struggle in which you prove to the occupation and its fascist government, to the enemies, the conspirators, the occupiers, the reactionary regimes, that you are the children of Jerusalem and that you hold fast to its holy sites and its Arab identity.
To the masses of the Palestinian people in the homeland and diaspora…
In light of the rapid developments in Jerusalem which indicate a new phase of comprehensive popular uprising, and in order to support the pillars of this growing popular struggle, we in the PFLP prison branch inside the occupation prisons emphasize the following:
1) We salute the martyrs of the “Day of Rage,” who today rose up in defense of Jerusalem (the martyrs Mohammed Mahmoud Khalaf, Mohammed Abu Ghannam and Mohammed Mahmoud Sharaf)
2) The blood of the martyrs, which runs in the streets and alleys of Palestine and the squares of Jerusalem, will not be wasted. In this context, we urge the organization of marches and symbolic gatherings in all of the streets of Palestine to commemorate the martyrs and praise their struggle and to emphasize the continuity of resistance and intifada on the road to return and liberation.
3) We salute the heroism of our people in Jerusalem and their steadfastness in the face of the systematic oppression and war waged by the occupation against them. We also express our pride in the masses of the Palestinian people in the villages, cities, refugee camps and in the diaspora who today defend Jerusalem and its people, especially the masses of our people in the West Bank, Gaza and our people in the occupied homeland of ’48 who have given birth to these great strugglers, emphasizing the unity of the land, the people and our destiny.
4) We urgently call for the formation of a unified national leadership to manage the open struggle with the occupation and to elevate the level of popular struggle and action in the context of a unified framework to mobilize the energies of our people, especially in light of the lack of legitimacy of the present official leadership.
5) We call to continue the days of anger throughout the week in support of our people in Jerusalem and to defend its holy sites and embody the slogan of continued intifada and resistance.
6) In the framework of current developments, we urge Palestinian national efforts to end the division and restore national unity as an urgent necessity on the basis of a formulation of a program of national struggle. This means a complete break with the Oslo Accords, its symbols and its security, economic and political commitments, first and foremost, security coordination.
7) We call on the military branches of the resistance factions to unify their action and escalate the resistance against the occupation, its military sites, positions and settlements in the West Bank and Gaza to carry out qualitative operations to support the intifada and the steadfastness of our people in Jerusalem and direct messages of fire that make it clear to the occupation that the resistance is present and able to respond even in the most difficult moments.
8) We call on Palestinian media and satellite channels to cover the reality of what is happening in Palestine, especially in Jerusalem, and to publish and document the crimes of the occupation and put the struggle of our people against Zionist terror in Palestine before the eyes of the world.
9) We call on the Arab masses to rally around the cause of Palestine and our people in Jerusalem and their holy sites, and to take to the public squares to uphold the cause of Palestine and rehabilitate it as a priority on the agenda of the Arab nation.
To our masses….
There is no voice above the voice of Jerusalem. There is no voice above that of Al-Aqsa and the holy sites. There is no voice above that of the martyr, the prisoner and the wounded. There is no voice above the voice of intifada and resistance. Come to the fields of struggle and sacrifice to defend the Arab and Palestinian identity of Jerusalem!
Glory to the martyrs and victory is inevitable!
The leadership of the PFLP branch in Israeli Jails
Friday, July 21
 