
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine called for the reformation of a unified national leadership in occupied Jerusalem, in order to confront the systematic war waged by the Zionist occupation of the city and its holy sites, especially as the situation holds the potential for the outbreak of a massive uprising, behind which all must unite and participate.
“The criminal aggression by the Zionist enemy, breaking into Al-Aqsa Mosque and invading various neighborhoods of Jerusalem, requires the convening of emergency sessions of the PLO Executive Committee and Central Council, in order to take a decision to form a unified national leadership for the start of a popular Intifada. This leadership must involve all of the factions, without exception, and the leadership of young people and various sectors of society. This moment holds the potential to spark a popular uprising,” said Comrade Abu Ahmad Fuad, Deputy General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
The Front emphasized that the escalating serious events in occupied Jerusalem require a unified national leadership that is prepared to direct the mass movement in Jerusalem, support the steadfastness of the Palestinian peple of the city, and activate Popular Committees to confront the terror of the occupation, its army and its colonists. The official Palestinian bodies and authorities have entirely failed to meet their responsibilities about the Zionist attack on Jerusalem, amid Arab official silence and international imperialist complicity with the Zionist entity.
The Front considered that the risks to Jerusalem are real and systematic, a war in the true sense of the word. The occupation has begun the implementation of its plans to divide Al-Aqsa Mosque temporally and spatially, and continues to attack, invade and wound dozens inside it, attacking journalists in order to prevent them from sharing the truth, as well as attacking ambulances and abducting the injured for arrest and interrogation. These striking developments come alongside the actions of the criminal Israeli state under Netanyahu in further repressing “stone-throwers” with massive prison sentences and threats of sniper fire.
The Front demanded the Palestinian resistance factions exercise their power to target the Zionist entity militarily, in particular its security and military positions and colonies, and saying that the West Bank and Jerusalem will rise up to confront the occupation in a state of permanent clashes and confrontation. The Front saluted the people of the city of Jerusalem, its youth, men, women, children and elders who continue to resist Zionist terror.
 