
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine sent the following statement of solidarity to the comrades of the Communist Party of the Philippines, National Democratic Front of the Philippines and New People’s Army on the 45th anniversary of the founding of the NPA as a revolutionary movement of armed struggle confronting imperialism, feudalism and their puppets in the Philippines. Salutes to the comrades on 45 years of heroic struggle!
Dear comrades of the New People’s Army, the Communist Party of the Philippines, and National Democratic Front of the Philippines,
On behalf of our General Secretary, Ahmad Sa’adat, our Deputy General Secretary, Abu Ahmad Fuad, and all comrades and members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, and on behalf of the military wing of the PFLP, the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades, we extend a strong red salute to the comrades and fighters of the New People’s Army on the 45th anniversary of your founding.
The New People’s Army and its leadership, the Communist Party of the Philippines, have been since their founding a true revolutionary movement of fighters, grounded in the people, liberating land, liberating lives, and standing on the front lines to combat imperialism, feudalism, bureaucrat‐capitalism, and dictatorship. TheNPA has given many martyrs to the cause of liberation, justice and socialism over its history. Those who have fallen are honored martyrs to our movement as well, as we struggle together to defeat our common enemies and achieve our joint liberation.
Your courage, commitment and revolutionary theory and practice have created true liberated areas and presented an unbending political and military challenge to imperialism and its puppet regimes, to feudalism, capitalism, and all forms of exploitation and oppression. Wherever the NPA is fighting, it is a fight of, by, and for the people, and a fight for a new, revolutionary and transformative future free of the shackles of imperialism and exploitation. The NPA is a true resistance, a true liberation force, and a true people’s army engaged in people’s war.
We in the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine salute you. You have always been firm allies of our people’s revolutionary resistance to defeat Zionism and imperialism in Palestine and our Arab homeland. We march together and struggle together on the road to liberation, return, freedom and true social justice. The people of Palestine and the people of the Philippines stand together to confront our common enemies, in a joint struggle against the ravages of imperialism and its plunder of our land and people, and to achieve victory for the workers, peasants and popular classes.
Our parties, alongside liberation fighters around the world, have been labeled as “terrorists”. We know that the real terror is that of imperialism, Zionism, and their puppets. The resistance and struggle of the people, with armed struggle at the center and the forefront, is not one of terror. It is one of liberation, and one which will bring about a new society and a new world.
We salute you, our revolutionary comrades, in our collective march toward people’s liberation. We are certain that the defeat of imperialism is certain and that victory for our people, for the Palestinian Revolution and the Philippine Revolution, is inevitable.
Long live the New People’s Army and the Communist Party of the
Philippines! Long live the National Democratic Front of the Philippines!
 