
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine salutes the masses of the Palestinian people on the occasion of the martyrdom of our comrade, Yousef Aziz Kashour, 19, of the village of Abu Dis east of Jerusalem, who was slain by occupation forces on Saturday, July 22 during confrontations with the Zionist occupation in Abu Dis in defense of Jerusalem and Al-Aqsa.
The PFLP salutes the martyr and confirms that he is descended from a struggling family in al-Saadia neighborhood, a neighborhood of the old city of occupied Jerusalem. He has been involved in national struggle and resistance to occupation since his youngest days. He joined the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and was given membership at an earlier age due to his dedication and commitment. He was responsible for the Front in his village and then assumed responsibility for the media activities, including maintaining the local social media accounts of the Front in Abu Dis, in addition to his activity in youth organizations.
The martyr was characterized by his high morals, commitment, bravery and courage. He was determined never to desert a confrontation with the occupation and to continually resist the occupation soldiers who attempt to invade the area with stones and Molotov cocktails. His bravery in the arena of confrontation and his appearance in the red kuffiyeh became an image of interest in the media, including international press, and of pride for the Palestinian people.
The martyred comrade developed these qualities amid his struggling family, including his father, a longtime Palestinian national struggler with a serious injury to his hand. His father was imprisoned by the occupation under a life sentence until he was freed in the 1985 prisoner exchange agreement. His uncle and many of his family members were killed, wounded and imprisoned defending Jerusalem and Palestine.
The Front expresses its deepest condolences to the family of the martyr and his friends and comrades in Abu Dis, Jerusalem and all of its neighborhoods on the occasion of his martyrdom. It pledges to remain committed to the same principles and values of national liberation that the martyr held dear, and to struggle until the achievement of the right of our people to return to their homeland and the full liberation of Palestine from the river to the sea.
Glory to the martyrs, and victory is inevitable!
 
 