
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine denounced the Egyptian government’s construction of a steel wall along its border with Gaza, extending 20 meters into the ground, as an unacceptable, unjustified action against the Palestinian people that only intensifies the siege on Gaza, on December 22, 2009.
In an interview with Al-Alam news, Comrade Abu Ahmad Fuad, member of the Political Bureau of the PFLP, said that the construction of this wall is deeply troubling and threatening, at a time when it is necessary to break down barriers between Arab countries. Comrade Fuad emphasized that the Egyptian people have always stood alongside their Palestinian Arab brothers and sisters, and would never support this further extension of the siege on Gaza.
He noted that Gaza is under siege, and that the tunnels to and from Egypt provide essential humanitarian goods and supply the majority of Gaza’s economy, and illustrate the creativity and resilience of our people in the face of occupation and siege. Comrade Fuad emphasized that the border at Rafah should be opened under the independent and sovereign control of Egyptians and Palestinians, and the need for tunnels ended by ending the siege on Gaza.
Comrade Fuad noted that despite various interventions by Egyptian officials in Palestinian affairs, these officials never consulted with Palestinians about the construction of this wall of siege and deprivation. He particularly took note that the wall is being constructed with U.S. military support and funding, saying that it was part and parcel of the U.S. imperial strategy in the region against the Palestinian and Arab people. He emphasized that this wall will only bring pain and devastation not only to the people in Gaza, but to the entire Palestinian people, and is an attempt to build a steel wall between the Arab people of Egypt and Palestine.
He emphasized that there is no benefit to either the Egyptian or Palestinian people, economically, politically or on a humanitarian level, from the construction of this monstrosity, and emphasized that the only real beneficiaries of this action are Israel and U.S. imperialism.
Comrade Fuad dismissed any attempts to justify this action by the Egyptian government by citing obligations to the “Quartet,” saying that “Gaza has been slaughtered under agreements and obligations to the Quartet, while the occupation has never adhered to any international law or resolution since its creation on Palestinian land.” He called upon Egypt to immediately end the construction of this wall of siege and open the Rafah crossing for normal transit of people, food, medicine and goods between Gaza and Egypt.
 