
The Prison Branch of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine announced that it would be naming its prison organizations after Palestinian towns and villages occupied since 1948, as part of the commemoration of the 49th anniversary of the founding of the PFLP.
The Branch emphasized that this is being done to emphasize the fundamental importance of the right of return of Palestinian refugees and to affirm the memory and defense of Palestinian and Arab identity and culture against all attempts to uproot and displace the Palestinian people and undermine their right to return.
At the same time, the Prison Branch noted that this measure is an action of support for the Palestinian people in occupied Palestine 1948, who continue to confront and resist the occupation by adhering to their land and national identity while confronting the Zionist project. It is also a symbolic gesture to emphasize that all of Palestine is in the heart of every Palestinian, especially at a moment when Palestinians in the refugee camps in Lebanon and Syria are facing reduced services, attempts to liquidate their presence, and moves to deny the camps’ role as a symbol of the right of return.
This is part of a series of events marking the PFLP’s anniversary which will continue until the commemoration of the Nakba, and will also include seminars and discussions on the Nakba and the right of return, including communicating with the Palestinian people through messages of support and other means.
The prison branch organizations have been named as follows:

The Gilboa prison organization has become the organization of “Beesan.”
The Megiddo prison organization has become the organization of “Safad.”
The Hadarim and Hasharon prison organization has become the organization of “Umm Khalid.”
The Ofer prison organization has become the organization of “Tantura.”
The Nafha organization has become the “Abbasiya” organization.
The Negev organization has become the “Yafa” organization.
The Ramon prison organization has become the “Al-Qastal” organization.

In addition, more than seventy cells have been named after the cities and villages from which Palestinians were displaced (including Al-Shajara, Birwa, Hamama, Jura, Al-Khalisa, Lydd, Haifa and Akka). The Prison Branch emphasizes the continuing struggle to achieve the rights of the Palestinian people, first and foremost the right of return, and announces the launch of the 49th anniversary of the Front.
 