
The Palestinian people reject Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’ return to the negotiating table with the Israeli occupation, said Comrade Khalida Jarrar, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. There is an urgent need for continued rallies and demonstrations condemning the return to these futile negotiations, said Jarrar, despite the attacks by security agencies in the West Bank. Jarrar noted that a number of PFLP activists were injured on Sunday due to the attack of PA security forces against a march rejecting the decision of the Palestinian Authority to resume negotiations with “Israel,” to end the monopoly on decision-making, and restore national unity based on resistance and steadfastness.
Jarrar said that the march was confronted by a blockade by security forces who refused to let demonstrators march to the Muqata’, the PA presidential compound. The security forces beat demonstrators with batons and wounded dozens, she reported. She emphasized that the PFLP rejects these negotiations under the auspices of the U.S. “It is clear that the Oslo approach has proved over 20 years that these bilateral negotiations do not lead to results and instead give the occupation cover to continue its policy of occupation and aggression on the ground through building settlements. We must stop these negotiations,” Jarrar said.
Comrade Abu Ahmed Fouad, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, strongly condemned the suppression of a mass march of our people by the security services in Ramallah. These demonstrators came out to express their opinion against a return to negotiations and were attacked, said Fouad, noting that this is contrary to the rules and the fundamental principles of democracy and the right of people to free expression. Fouad said that what happened in the streets of Ramallah yesterday was a popular demonstration to pressure the PA leadership to stop the negotiating process.
He noted that the Zionist enemy has always been the first and last beneficiary of such negotiations, and that it is the right of the PFLP and the Palestinian factions to carry out activities and mass events to prevent any concessions at the exprense of the Palestinian people and the national cause. He said that the negotiations beginning in Washington do not represent the will of the people or the Palestinian liberation movement and should end immediately, and that the Front will continue its opposition to the negotiations and its struggle for an alternative national strategy that rejects the path of the Oslo Accords and the subsequent harmful agreements.
Comrade Emad Abu Rahma, member of the Central Committee of the PFLP, said that those responsible for the decision to return to negotiations with the government of the Zionist enemy must be held accountable, stressing that this action violates the decisions of the Central Council of the PLO, as well as the majority of political and social Palestinian forces, who oppose this humiliating return to the negotiations table.
Abu Rahma said further that the PLO Executive Committee meeting which preceded this arbitrary individual decision to return to negotiations confirmed the minimum terms of the Central Council, including a total halt to settlement construction, the release of Palestinian prisoners and detainees, and to consider international law and UN resolutions the reference for any negotiations. However, the decision to return to negotiations was taken in light of Israel’s refusal of these conditions, the deception of the US, and a promised release of a limited number of prisoners in order to provide cover for the Netanyahu government to continue its policies of Judaization, settlement and aggression against the Palestinian people.
He called for the broadest popular movement to bring down the Oslo approach and these negotiations, which have brought only destruction, siege and division to our people for 20 years, and to restore national unity based on resistance and confrontation of the occupation.
 
 
 