
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine demanded on September 8, 2009 that the Arab League and the Palestine Liberation Organization leadership end any and all reliance on the so-called “peace” initiatives and projects, and instead take a firm stance against the occupation state and its war crimes.
Most recently, the occupation state’s criminal Netanyahu government has approved hundreds of new settlement units in the West Bank, as well as officially opening a new Zionist settlement in the West Bank, next to the existing settlement of Ma’ale Adumim, that will attempt to divide the West Bank in two.
The PFLP called upon official Arab forces to rise to a minimum level of national responsibility and confront the continual Israeli aggression against the Arab people and their rights, and take action to confront the occupation’s crimes in Jerusalem, its expulsion of its Arab people and its harms to its holy sites, and its plans to increase its colonization of the West Bank, and leave aside so-called “peace initiatives.”
The PFLP warned against any normalization with the occupation, noting that the so-called “settlement freeze” is an unacceptable cost for normalization with the occupier, and saying that these sorts of Zionist manipulations should and must remain unacceptable, and that the masses of the Arab people will never accept normalization with the racist occupier that steals our land and oppresses our people and that any talk of bartering a so-called “settlement freeze” for normalization is essentially approval of and collaboration with the occupier.
Time and time again, U.S. promises of “peace initiatives” have been proven to be false. A temporary pause in the construction of new settlement units, while leaving settlements intact throughout our land, while the occupation continues, while Jerusalem is occupied, while millions of Palestinian refugees are denied the right to return home, is no concession at all by the occupation state, said the PFLP’s spokesperson.
The PFLP said instead that the Arab League should be planning with the Non-Aligned Movement and other progressive international forces to pressure the United Nations and international institutions to bring the occupation and its leaders to justice and put them on trial in international courts for their crimes against our people.
The PFLP continued to say that it is time for the Arab League to put its statements in support of Palestinians into action and uphold its responsibilities to the Palestinian people.
At the same time, the PFLP spokesperson noted that the Front has no illusions about the role of reactionary Arab regimes, who are deeply linked themselves to U.S. imperialism, in securing justice and liberation for the Palestinian people and the Arab nation, and expressed its utmost confidence, instead, in the role and power of the Arab people.
In addition, Comrade Abu Ahmad Fuad, member of the Political Bureau of the PFLP, said in reference to the alleged dispute between the U.S. government and Israel over new settlement construction, that the U.S. and Israel are strategic, long-term allies and any perceived differences are merely debates about image management and temporary tactics. In fact, Comrade Fuad said, if the new settlements are built, it is with the green light (public or covert) of the U.S. administration.
He said further that “all of what we hear from the lips of the officials of the Obama State Department has no value and no sense, because these statements are deceptive efforts intended only to beautify the image of the United States, which will not fool the Palestinian, Arab and Muslim people.”
Comrade Fuad further called upon the Executive Committee of the PLO to officially and formally repudiate all negotiations with the Zionist enemy and condemn the U.S. position. He emphasized the need to build national unity through comprehensive and inclusive national dialogue, in order to confront new threats of Arab countries’ normalization and the crimes of the occupier.
 