
Comrades Jamil Mizher and Maher al-Taher, members of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, appeared in interviews with Al-Mayadeen TV, addressing issues of the speech of Mahmoud Abbas before the United Nations and the current situation facing the Palestinian people.
The real referendum on the speech of Abbas, said Mizher, will come in practice and implementation on the ground, demanding the abolition of the Oslo accords, an immediate end to security coordination and to the Paris economic agreement, and withdrawal of mutual recognition with the Zionist enemy. “As it stands, Mizher said, the speech is merely a verbal threat, with no path of implementation or practical or serious steps, and thus is a means of delay and procrastination in implementing the decisions of the Palestinian Central Council.”
“The Palestinian people are fed up with the so-called pseudo-peace process,” said Taher. “They have reached a deep and comprehensive conviction that we have only the option of confronting this brutal occupation, and reject any reliance on ‘political solutions’ that have proven unsuccessful.”
“We are now facing an urgent need for a strategy of confrontation with this criminal enemy, rather than spinning in place and relying on regional or international interventions to gain an advantage in negotiations, or to accept the French initiative, which does not respect a minimum of our national rights and poses a threat of renewed absurd, harmful negotiations,” said Mizher.
Taher pointed out the nature of the Zionist government of the criminal Netanyahu: “The occupation has clearly announced that it rejects the establishment of an independent Palestinian state, as uttered by the criminal Netanyahu publicly…who was elected by voters on this basis. Why then bet on the path of negotiations and continue them in light of the declared Israeli policy: no state, no withdrawal to ’67 borders, no right of return, no Jerusalem, forced recognition of the ‘Jewishness’ of the state…The occupation policies are clear: they do not want a Palestinian militant, or moderate, or ‘extremist’; for them, the only good Palestinian is a dead Palestinian..They want to control the West Bank and Jerusalem and liquidate the right of return. This is evident to all.”
The mood of the Palestinian people is for rejection of these agreements and confrontation of the occupation, said Mizher. “Our people in the West Bank are moving, as is reflected in the heroic resistance action carried out on Thursday evening. This is he mood of the Palestinian people. We in the Popular Front salute all forces and factions that raise up the gun to confront the occupier and upholds the resistance as a legitimate right of the Palestinian people.”
“For the factions to truly play their role in resisting the occupation, it is necessary for the Palestinian Authority to immediately end security coordination and free the hands of the resistance from the constant pursuits and daily harassment and arrests of the security forces,” said Mizher, noting that just hours before, the PA’s security forces suppressed demonstrations in Tulkarem and elsewhere in support of Jerusalem under Zionist attack.
Mizher saluted the Palestinian people in Jerusalem facing a brutal Zionist attack, condemning the official Arab and international silence on the attacks on the city and Al-Aqsa Mosque, noting that Al-Aqsa is constantly exposed to attempts to destroy it by the occupation and its settlers, and to divide it temporally and spatially.
“There is a popular mood for the adoption of the armed struggle, and not only so-called ‘peaceful resistance,’ correcting the framework of popular resistance,” said Mizher. “Both are part of the framework of the Palestinian national liberation movement, which includes various forms of resistance: direct engagement with occupation checkpoints and soldiers, demonstrations, boycott and international action, as well as armed struggle.”
Taher addressed the Palestinian struggle on the Arab level, noting that “It is true that the Arab world is consumed with internal problems, issues and concerns – in Yemen, Iraq and Syria, and several regional and international situations which has diverted attention from the Palestinian cause, and some attempt to portray the Palestinian cause as dead, or over; the cause is alive and is the central conflict in the region, and will remain so.”
 