
In response to the Zionist enemy’s announced decision to invade Gaza via a ground invasion, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine declared that it is doomed to failure and will not achieve its objectives, thanks to the steadfastness of our people and their determination to confront the aggression, and to the brave resistance which is ready and willing to confront the invasion everywhere in Gaza.
The PFLP emphasized its confidence in the resistance factions, and the importance of coordination on the ground and developing joint plans not only to thwart the invasion but to defeat the occupation forces and develop a new equation in our struggle with the enemy.
The PFLP saluted the masses of the Palestinian people and their steadfastness in confronting this fascist aggression, their embrace of resistance and rejection of the enemy’s threats, and their knowledge that ending the suffering and aggression must come with the defeat of the occupier.
Comrade Hani Thawabteh, member of the Central Committee of the PFLP, spoke saluting the Palestinian people, saying that “all of our people are today engaged in the battle against the aggression and confronting the enemy’s war machine.” He noted that the Palestinian resistance, including the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades are ready to confront the ground invasion and that our people will not surrender and their will cannot be broken.
He noted that the primary objective of the barbaric aggression waged by the Zionist army in the Gaza Strip is aimed at imposing conditions rejected by the Palestinian people and their heroic resistance. He praised the unity and collaboration between the resistance fighters in the battlefield, and their commitment and strength that prove why Palestinians know that they will achieve victory.
He expressed the highest salutes of the leadership of the Front to the masses of the Palestinian people for their steadfastness and support of the resistance, and their refusal to concede to Zionist threats.
Comrade Maher al-Taher, member of the Political Bureau of the PFLP, said that the will of the Palestinian people is unbreakable, and that the Zionist enemy will pay dearly for its ground offensive on Gaza and its attempt to break the Palestinian people and their resistance.
“The Zionist criminals’ killing of women and children, the destruction of civilian homes over the heads of the families who own them, will only increase the determination to continue the battle with legendary steadfastness,” said Taher.
He said that the main objective of the aggression of air, sea and land is to disarm the resistance, but this goal will remain elusive and leaders will recognize terrorism in “Tel Aviv,” they will not reach their goal, whatever the sacrifices, and will remain our motto certificate or victory.
 
 