
A spokesperson for the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine said on June 2 that security coordination with the Zionist enemy and the path of negotiations since Oslo have had a devastating impact on the Palestinian people at an individual and collective level.
“Security coordination has led to the imprisonment of numerous Palestinians in occupation jails, the siege and killing by occupation forces of Palestinians like Moataz Washahe, and a revolving door of PA and occupation jails. Providing security to the occupier is an attack on the Palestinian people and Palestinian cause. There is no excuse for security coordination with the occupier. It is participation in the war on the Palestinian resistance,” the spokesperson said.
The spokesperson denounced the remarks of PA President Mahmoud Abbas, who, in an event in Ramallah last week for 300 Israelis, said that “security coordination is sacred…and we will continue it whether we agree or disagree on policy.”
“Security coordination is a shameful sin. It has brought nothing but tragedy and division to the Palestinian people. Real national unity means uniting to end security coordination, reject negotiations, and support the resistance and steadfastness of the Palestinian people. Upholding security coordination is assisting the occupation army and intelligence services as they attack and suppress the Palestinian people and their resistance. To label it sacred is truly unholy,” said the spokesperson.
“We are struggling to liberate Palestine, not to provide security to the occupier as it builds settlements, destroys our homes, steals our land, imprisons our people, besieges us, denies our existence and rights and kills our children. Security coordination is a direct service to the occupation and its war on our people. There is no way forward except by the complete rejection of security coordination and a return to the path of Palestinian resistance and revolution until the return of the refugees and the liberation of our land and people.”
 