
On the PFLP Martyrs’ Day, March 9, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine commemorates the martyrdom of political and military leader Guevara Gaza (Mohammed al-Aswad). On March 9, 2012, the PFLP again vowed loyalty to the legacy of the martyrs, promising to struggle to achieve the goals for which they lost their lives.
In a statement, the PFLP said: We stand with all reverence and honor to the memory of the martyrs of the Popular Front, the Palestinian revolution, and the democratic Arab national liberation movement. They have inspired lessons, trust and faith in the justice of our cause and the inevitability of victory, despite falsehood, injustice and aggression. They strengthen our resolve and determination, and our will to continue to struggle to defeat the occupation, dismantle the settlements, free the prisoners, and achieve liberation, self-determination and return.
The martyrs sacrificed all, said the Front, in pursuit of these goals, and saluted their battles for liberation and freedom in the face of torturers, on the battlefields, and inside the cells and prison camps.
The PFLP paid tribute to the lives of martyrs, and the leaders, founders, and pioneers of resistance – George Habash and Wadih Haddad, Abu Ali Mustafa, Abu Maher Yamani, Ghassan Kanafani, Guevara Gaza, Khaled Abu Aish, Mohammed Yamani and his comrade Izzedine al-Qassam and Jamjoum, Zalloum, Hijazi, Abdul-Qader al-Husseini, Abu Ghazaleh, Fayez Jaber, Akkawi and Maslamani, Mleitat and Hanani, Sa’adat and Sobh, the list goes on and on endlessly. The Front also saluted their families and expressed gratitude for their steadfastness, renewing its pledge to them and to our people that the Front will remain on the path of those who fell, maintaining the sanctity of Palestinian blood.
On this occasion, the Front noted that national unity is the sharpest weapon in the battle for liberation and unity is necessary to confront occupation and aggression, on the road to liberating our land and achieving all our rights. We must rise to the challenges and model the sacrifices made by our people in the interest of freedom and self-determination, said the Front, rejecting any attempts to rely on the so-called “peace process” and the United States’ negotiations, calling instead for building a united resistance front on a democratic basis, restoring the status of the PLO as a united, sole legitimate representative of our people on the basis of a national strategy of struggle to fulfill our national goals and achieve victory, liberation and return.
 