
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine sent the following message of solidarity to the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia – Ejercito Popular (FARC-EP), marking the 50th anniversary of the founding of the FARC, marked on May 27:
To the comrades of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia – Ejercito Popular (FARC-EP):
On behalf of our leader, Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat, General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the Political Bureau, our revolutionary armed forces (the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades) and the members of the Front, we send our revolutionary greetings on the 50th anniversary of the founding of the FARC-EP.
We take this opportunity to reiterate our support for the struggle of all peoples and for the FARC’s struggle against U.S. imperialism, its lackeys in Colombia, and throughout Latin America. Once again, the PFLP expresses its support for the struggle of the FARC-EP for land reform, for the defense and protection of the national and natural resources and a Colombia free of U.S. military bases, to ensure the independence and sovereignty of the Colombian people.
On this glorious anniversary, we reaffirm our commitment to deepen and strengthen our relationship and our common struggle to defend our national and class interests of the most oppressed people in Colombia and Palestine, the right of our peoples to self-determination and national sovereignty, and to struggle together to strengthen the anti-Zionist and anti-imperialist struggle and our confrontation of the political and economic plunder of our resources. We reject imperialist intervention in the domestic affairs of nations in Latin America and the Arab Homeland.
Our relationship always has a solid foundation, on the basis of common principles and the fight for an alternative world of true justice. Despite the obstacles we face and drastic changes worldwide, our relationships will strengthen and deepen to meet the challenges of the crisis of the international capitalist economic system.
We are confident that the fight for socialism, for a humanist alternative world without exploitation and with true justice, is the only way forward.
Comrades and colleagues, the Popular Front, together with our Palestinian people and other national forces are waging another chapter in our days of struggle, one of the most difficult in the course of 66 years of the illegally imposed racist, fascist colonial settler Zionist state in Palestine. The Zionist state of Israel benefitted from the so-called “peace process” and the chronic and endless negotiations with the Palestinian Authority, the political arm of the Palestinian right wing. The Zionist state attempts to impose its conditions for the resolution of the so-called Arab-Israeli or Palestinian-Israeli conflict with the full and unconditional support of international imperialism, particularly U.S. imperialism.
This colonial and illegal state uses all its military, political, diplomatic and media power to break the will of our people who struggle to liberate their occupied homeland, subjugated by international Zionist movement and its patron, imperialism. In addition, it lashes out with all of its might, using government lackeys and mercenaries to destroy the nation, causing separation and division to serve its military, economic, and geographical interests to maintain Israel’s status as the dominant and hegemonic force in the region.
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, guided by the Marxist-Leninist theory, is ready and willing to move forward on the path of struggle in all forms, particularly revolutionary armed struggle. It will always be in the trenches of struggle against imperialism and confronting the policy and plans of the United States, not only in Palestine and the Arab world, but internationally.
We are convinced that Zionism and imperialism are doomed to failure, but that we must act to protect the peoples and nations from their aggression and disastrous wars, and to bring about the final victory. It is now more than ever needed to strengthen and build anti-imperialist fronts of the Marxist Left on regional and international levels.
Comrades, we march together towards a brighter tomorrow and struggle shoulder to shoulder for liberation, equality, freedom and socialism in Colombia and Palestine.
Viva la FARC-EP!
 