
The Palestinian Authority and its leadership are in dereliction of their duty to confront the occupation attacks on Al-Aqsa Mosque and the occupied city of Jerusalem, said Comrade Abdel-Alim Da’na, a leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, speaking with Al-Quds TV on November 7.
“At a time when Jerusalemites are being attacked and rounded up by the occupation for defending Jerusalem, the chief Palestinian negotiator is meeting with US Secretary of State John Kerry to discuss the resumption of negotiations with the Zionist occupation,” said Da’na, saying that PA President Mahmoud Abbas’ continuing reliance on negotiations is unacceptable and has brought disaster to the Palestinian people.
Instead, Da’na said, there is an urgent need for Palestinians everywhere to organize and stand together to confront the criminal occupier and its attacks on Jerusalem.
Da’na said that it is shameful for the PA to return to the path of negotiations while the violations against al-Aqsa and the holy sites in Jerusalem escalate. He also noted that the West Bank is emerging into a period of uprising against the occupation, saying that “Palestinians in the West Bank reject the occupation practices of blood, repression and silence.”
“The Palestinians in the West refuse the occupation practices of blood and severe resistance and not to speak.”
Comrade Zaher Shishtary of the PFLP concurred, saying that “the continued reliance on the United States administration by the Palestinian Authority leadership will only lead to further degradation of the national cause.”
There is a growing mass popular movement in Palestine and in exile and diaspora, said Shishtary, saying that all attempts to cut this popular uprising short must be confronted. “It is clear that there are those in the Palestinian leadership that does not want the mass struggle to emerge and want to preserve the status quo. They are still betting on negotiations and settlement with the occupation, which have proved a failure.”
Shishtary noted that the step of bringing a resolution before the United Nations will be met with a US visa, saying that instead, the Palestinian leadership must focus on and implement joining international institutions, particularly the International Criminal Court, to put the occupation on trial for its crimes against our people.
In addition, he denounced the official Arab inaction about Jerusalem, noting that it is restricted to denunciations and statements that have come too late and will benefit nothing.
 
 