
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and its military wing, the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades, responded to the Zionist attack on Jenin camp and the resistance response to the attack:
Statement from the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades:
Once again, and as usual, the fascist enemy attempted to commit another crime in the Jenin refugee camp last night, seeking to arrest a number of leading national figures in the camp. They were met by the popular masses and the resistance with a high spirit of confrontation and struggle, thwarting and defeating the aggression by the Zionist forces.
What happened in the Jenin refugee camp, and the failure of the Zionist enemy in achieving its goals, for which it stormed the camp, once again confirms the correctness of the resistance approach to deal with the enemy, respond to his crimes and thwart his plans, and also points to the importance of coordinating the resistance effort on the ground. Once again, the resistance proved that united efforts of all forces in fighting the enemy is a critical factor in the equation of the conflict.
Furthermore, the Jenin refugee camp events exposed the role that security coordination with the occupier is playing against our people despite all attempts to beautify or obscure this reality, making clear the ugly reality of security coordination which only serves the occupation and its criminal schemes.
Salute to the masses of Jenin, the heroic masses of our people, and all glory to the fighters who broke the aggression on Jenin camp!
Statement from the PFLP:
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine expressed its pride and appreciation in the resistance fighters of various affiliations in Jenin refugee camp who collectively resisted the occupation schemes targeting Palestinian leaders, which the Jenin camp experienced on August 31 and September 1, until the resistance pushed the Zionist forces outside the camp.
The Front confirmed that the sacrifices of Jenin camp have been and will remain a heroic model of resistance, and that its spirit cannot be defeated in the streets and alleys of the camp, recalling the heroic response to aggression in the battle of Jenin camp and the defeat of the objectives of the occupation.
The Front called upon the Palestinian masses and resistance factions to exercise vigilance in the attempts of the occupation to target hotbeds of resistance in order to weaken them in the West Bank and support the occupier’s plans for settlement, colonization, Judaization, and isolation of towns and villages.
The Front also emphasized the need to strengthen the unity of the resistance of the various factions and to escalate the resistance to Zionist targets in the West Bank. The occupation is not targeting a particular faction: it is targeting the entire Palestinian people.
The Front emphasized that the current political situation and the failed approach of the monopolistic Palestinian leadership of reliance on Oslo and negotiations must come to an end. Instead, what is needed is a clear political decision by all forces to support the steadfastness of our people and exercise the resistance. What is the purpose of huge security budgets and thousands of security personnel if not to defend the homeland and the people?
 