
Comrade Badran Jaber rejected proposals that NATO troops would be stationed in an alleged future Palestinian state, saying that accepting any such arrangement would mean “escaping from the mouse only to fall into the grasp of the lion.” He noted that the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine completely rejects any foreign forces on Palestinian land and rejected any “formulas that limit or impair the rights or dignity of the Palestinian people.” He noted that any real Palestinian sovereignty means control over the airspace, water, and natural resources of the Palestinian people, and that the occupation state has been the only beneficiary of 21 years of negotiations. He challenged the idea that there was some benefit to be gained by “debating” or “arguing” with representatives of the occupation, asking “What argument has convinced Israelis to come to their senses and stop acting as invaders, occupiers, settlers, colonizers and racists during 21 years of arguments?”
Furthermore, Comrade Khalida Jarrar reiterated the PFLP’s complete rejection of the U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry’s so-called framework agreement. “The Kerry plan is a new step of the notorious Oslo agreement and serves the U.S. primary goal of ending the conflict in favor of Zionism, as indicated by the frantic attempts to impose fundamentally Zionist solutions on core issues like the right of return, Palestinian sovereignty, borders and Jerusalem.”
She noted that the current stage is quite dangerous, establishes a continual status of ongoing negotiations which is fully compatible with the goals of the occupation to guarantee its security by raising the level of security coordination and cooperation with the Palestinian Authority to an even higher level. Jarrar also condemned the role of the European Union and its attempts to pressure Palestinian officials to accept the Framework agreement, which is deeply damaging to the Palestinian cause.
Jarrar commented on the media statements of opposition within the Zionist entity to the framework agreement as a disingenuous distraction, noting that the entire proposal is to the benefit of the occupying power. “Attempts are being made to portray in front of world public opinion that there is ‘Israeli opposition’ to the plan, which will be followed by efforts to ‘persuade the Israelis’ to accept it, which is in reality a means of pressure upon Palestinians to continue with the negotiations and accept this framework.”
Jarrar noted that Palestinian Authority officials are not serious in addressing political alternatives to negotiations, and noted that the Kerry formula will be presented in an attempt to mislead even Palestinian public opinion by portraying it as fulfilling certain Palestinian goals, while in fact remaining entirely illusory. She said that statements of some PA officials regarding withdrawing from the negotiations do not constitute real pressure on the PA leadership, but mere deceptive talk in the media. This is happening, she said, while “there are statements from PA President Mahmoud Abbas on Zionist TV openly praising the security cooperation” and pledging ongoing action against Palestinain resistance, which is quite dangerous.
She said that the negotiations are useless and it is the responsibility of the international community to implement United Nations resolutions of international legtitimacy to ensure the rights of the Palestinian people and to protect the Palestinian people. Furthermore, she denounced Abbas’ comments about a so-called demilitarized state, noting that this directly violates the fundamental principles of sovereignty and noting that this raises concerns about officials’ acceptance of the Kerry plan. Jarrar said that “Palestinian national consensus rejects the continuation of negotiations,” saying that the occupation exploits the negotiations, systematically building settlements, Judaizing Jerusalem and Al-Aqsa mosque, and that the Kerry plan and negotiations will produce nothing except concessions of Palestinian rights.
 