
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine urged the Palestinian masses and national and Islamic forces to escalate confrontation of the occupation in response to its escalating crimes against the Palestinian people, its terror and racism, including its most recent attack – the destruction of the home of the family of the martyr of the intifada, Muhannad Halabi.
The Front honored the Palestinian martyrs killed the morning of January 9, Ali Hajj Muhammad, 21; and Said Abu al-Wafa, 38; shot in cold blood by occupation soldiers at Al-Hamra checkpoint north of Jericho in occupied Palestine.
The Front also denounced the escalating crimes of the occupation against the Palestinian people, especially the field executions and assassination carried out by cowardly soldiers against Palestinian children and youth, and unleashing the soldiers and settlers to attack civilians, reflect the racist and fascist nature of the occupation state unable to cope with the rebelling youth of Palestine.
The PFLP also praised the martyr Nashat Melhem of Arara village in occupied Palestine ’48, who fell as a martyr after he created a state of panic inside the occupation state, including the imposition of a curfew on the city of Tel Aviv and the mystification of occupation intelligence services for several days.
The Front said that Melhem is a son of the Palestinian people who rose up to confront the Zionist occupation and respond to its crimes, noting that there is an unrelenting tenacity and determination of the Palestinian people from north to south, from the river to the sea, for liberation that neither Oslo nor occupation schemes can undermine or erase.
Comrade Mahmoud al-Ras also denounced the action of the Ministry of Health in Ramallah to delete Melhem’s name from the list of martyrs of the intifada, describing this action as a moral and national crime against the Palestinian intifada and an attempt to discredit rising Palestinian youth. This action does not change the fact that Melhem is a martyr of the Palestinian cause, and no ministry is an appropriate determinor of who is a martyr for Palestine, only the Palestinian people make that decision, said al-Ras.
The Front said that the operation carried out by the martyr Melhem also confirmed the failure of all attempts to separate the occupied lands of Palestine from one another and to divide its people and its cause. All forms and means of facist and racist repression, collective punishment and the execution of youth in cold blood, the policy of home demolitions, will only increase the determination of our people to escalate the intifada throughout the entire occupied land of Palestine.
The Front demanded that the official Palestinian leadership to stand with the intifada and provide all support for its continuity and escalation, including supporting the resilience of the families of the martyrs, and immediately put an end to all forms of security coordination and other cooperation with the occupation. Further, the PFLP demanded an official Palestinian political line and discourse that is compatible with the Palestinian popular mood and consensus and at the level of the sacrifices of the Palestinian youth who have given all for the liberation of their nation.
 