
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine stated that the goal of the occupation in its ongoing brutal and criminal aggression on the Gaza Strip in targeting residential towers, the Italian complex and al-Basha tower in Gaza City, and before that the Al Zafer 4 Tower and the Rafah Commercial Center, is to pressure the resistance and break the people’s will to resist. This is a serious development reflecting the confusion and panic in the Zionist political and military enterprise due to the ongoing and serious strikes and steadfastness of the resistance.
The Front stated that the fascist, colonial invader is attempting to pressure the Palestinian political forces through the criminal and wanton destruction of civilian neighborhoods, residential towers and commercial centers, attempting to use the destruction of Palestinian infrastructure as a political achievement after it failed utterly in its military ground invasion, swallowed by the fighters and sands of Gaza.
The occupation will indeed pay for its crimes, the Front emphasized, and the systematic and incessant destruction, shelling and aerial bombing of the Gaza Strip will not succeed in killing the will of the people or their determination to resist or hold fast. Our people will honor the precious blood of the martyrs and the wounded and will rebuild and will resist.
The Front called for solidarity with Sawt al-Shaab (Voice of the People) radio, the leftist Palestinian radio station destroyed with all of its equipment in the targeting and destruction of Al-Basha Tower in Gaza City, where the station had its studio. Sawt al-Shaab will continue to struggle by all means to bring the truth – the whole truth – to the masses, and the occupation’s crimes will not be able to silence its voice or kill the truth of its massacres in Gaza.
The Front is confident that the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip stand before a real victory, borne by the blood of the martyrs and the steadfastness of the people. It recalls the destruction of the southern suburbs in Lebanon and of Leningrad under siege before victory, resisting colonization. There is no future for this criminal occupier, but there is for our children and the generations to come who will celebrate a complete victory and expel this occupation from our land.
 