
Comrade Dr. Rabah Muhanna, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, called on members of the Palestinian National Council to boycott the extraordinary session being called in September, noting that it is “wrong in form and content, and in its consequences.”
Muhanna spoke during a forum convened by the PFLP and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine in Gaza City to discuss the issue of the PNC meeting. “We support the convening instead of a unifying national Council on a normal cycle, and we call on the members of the National Council on the basis of this position, for the benefit of the Palestinian people and cause.”
Both the PFLP and the DFLP called for the convening of a normal session of the PNC, to be agreed upon and prepared by the provisional leadership framework, on an inclusive basis. In the event that this provisional leadership framework could not be convened, they called for the convening of a preparatory committee with representatives of all of the national and Islamic forces and the executive and presidency of the National Council, to oversee a process toward new and democratic elections for the National Council or national consensus.
Muhanna particularly drew attention to the planned convening of the extraordinary session of the PNC in Ramallah under occupation, excluding Palestinian refugees outside Palestine, noting that the venue reflects a political point as it has in past sessions, whether held in Cairo, Amman or Algiers, and so the venue and location must also be determined on a political and inclusive basis. “Is the session being held in Ramallah in order for some personalities loyal to the monopolistic leadership to be present, and the opponents to be excluded?”
He urged popular pressure to support this position in order for any convening of the PNC to positively impact the Palestinian people and their cause. He noted that the convening of this session in this time, place and manner does not reflect any desire on the part of the monopolistic Palestinian leadership to reform or support the Palestinian house and rebuild its national institutions, but instead works to block reconciliation and reproduce division.
Saleh Nasser of the Political Bureau of the DFLP stated that a PNC meeting must have the participation of all forces, urging national consensus and democratic reforms in order to build a unified Palestinian political program and address the crisis, noting that the provisional leadership framework is the proper location to organize PNC elections and convening.
Khaled al-Batsh of Islamic Jihad suggested the need to convene an emergency consultative meeting among all factions to arrange the Palestinian house.
The forum included open debate and questions from the attendees with varied opinions on the PNC session; some described it as a trick or gimmick by the monopolistic leadership and others noted that it violated the Basic Law or national consensus – but all agreed on the need to rebuild Palestinian national institutions, particularly the Palestine Liberation Organization, on an inclusive and democratic basis with the participation of all forces, noting the importance of popular pressure to correct the path of the Palestinian political scene.
For his part, member of the Political Bureau of the Democratic Front, Saleh Nasser, during the workshop, the position of the pro forehead and the national council session Philistines unite the people, so as not to turn into a session restore things back to square one.
He stressed that the democratic reform process and unified political program, is the way to end the chaos in Palestine the political system, and addressing all crises.
Nasser said: many of the agreements signed between all the national Palestinian factions, since 2005 until 2013, when the framework met the interim leader of the last meeting, was agreed to hold the Council agreed a team and identify its members and, unfortunately, all these decisions, disrupted due to several reasons, most notably the division.
Nasser explained that a lot of efforts have been made with many of the powers in order to disrupt the efforts of others, which is pressing for the convening of an extraordinary session of the National Council, to push for a regular session of the Council, including the commitment is stated in the Palestinian statute.
Nasser stressed the need to complement the efforts and hold consultations with everyone, before the preparatory committee meetings leading up to the Council.
 