
Over 51 days, the Zionist occupation waged an all-out war on the Gaza Strip by land, air and sea, using vast and varied weaponry: warplanes, tanks, guns and battleships, killing at least 2143 and injuring nearly 11,000 Palestinians, causing massive destruction of homes, infrastructure, commercial centers, residential towers and neighborhoods, and displacing thousands. Despite this deep wound and its great pain, our people in the Gaza Strip carried on a legendary steadfastness and heroic, victorious resistance that has made a significant shift in the conflict with the Zionist enemy. The resistance’s victory is paving the way for a new phase of resistance at a higher level, having brought down the myth of the invincible Zionist army and defeated the concept of the impossibility of victory.
The battles fought by the resistance against the Zionist occupation in Shujai’ya, Beit Hanoun, Khan Younis and Rafah imposed a new equation, making significant military achievements against the occupation army that killed and wounded a large number of occupation soldiers in well-planned and executed operations. This comes in addition to the capture of two Zionists, destabilizing the Zionist domestic front, and causing a large numbr of Zionists to be displaced from around the Gaza Strip. These events constitute a strategic development in the struggle.
Despite its technological and military superiority, the occupation failed completely in achieving its stated objectives of the aggression, inclufing eliminating the infrastructure of the resistance, disarming the resistance, imposing a security buffer zone, destroying resistance tunnels and preventing the firing of rockets. It has been proven that resistance is the only guarantee that protects our people from the Zionist occupation. One of the most important lessons of this war of aggression is the popular embrace of the resistance, which proved beyond any doubt the unity of our people to confront the Zionist occupation, which had intended to divide the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip from the resistance by massive killing and bombing with the latest in the U.S. arsenal of internationally prohibited weapons against civilians, particularly children and elders and families. Instead, what was clear was the depth of popular conviction and commitment to the resistance and its achievements, proving that the resistance is deeply one with the people and their profound will and steadfastness.
We in the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine emphasize the following:
1. We salute our people, who epitomize steadfastness and struggle, confronting the Zionist war machine, its genocide and systematic massacres against all in the Strip, which demolished and destroyed, and killed and displaced thousands of our people.
2. We send our greetings of pride, glory and immortality to our martyrs, whose blood is that of our people’s victory, and wish a speedy recovery to the wounded, thousands of whom remain in hospitals.
3. We pay tribute to all of the sectors of our people, in particular the ambulance crews, civil defense personnel, medical personnel and health workers, journalists and relief committees who braved the aggression and bombing and paid with their lives to save and serve our people.
4. We express deep pride in the valiant Palestinian resistance, who confronted the army of the vanquished Zionist enemy with high responsibility and unparalleled courage, and who carried out advanced operations and caused significant casualties, hundreds killed and wounded among the occupation army, confirming that the performance of the resistance was a strategic development in the ongoing struggle with the criminal enemy.
5. The Front reflects its appreciation and gratitude for the unified Palestinian delegation and calls to complete the path to national unity which was embodied during the aggression, calling for an urgent meeting of the Palestinian provisional leadership involving all forces, with the aim of setting the Palestinian house in order to confront the occupation and its plans of aggression against our people.
6. The Front demands that the Palestinian leadership develop a new national plan as an alternative to the useless path of negotiations. Furthermore, it is urgent to move forward to join the Rome Statute and the International Criminal Court and seek immediately to put the leaders of the occupation on trial for their heinous massacres against our people.
7. The Front commends the spirit of solidarity that prevailed across the Gaza Strip, and emphasizes the need to continue to work to accommodate the displaced, rebuild what was destroyed by the occupation, and provide assistance to support the needs of the Palestinian people, aside from factional or partisan interests.
8. We salute the people of the world who stood in solidarity with Palestine and Gaza, noting particularly the role of Latin America and the people of Europe. The squares of European cities and Latin America were filled by thousands in solidarity with the Palestinian people in Gaza.
9. The Zionist aggression has revealed the enormity of official Arab collusion with the Zionist project and the distortion of the so-called Arab Spring.
This victory of our people against the Zionist aggression is a shining landmark in our history of struggle and resistance to the Zionist project, and the results of this victory should be harvested and further invested so as to be prepared for the coming battle with the criminal enemy, the battle which will continue until we achieve the goals of our people, for return, freedom, self-determination and the establishment of our independent Palestine on every inch of the entire land of Palestine.
Glory to the martyrs and victory to our people…and speedy recovery for the wounded.
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
 