
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine condemned the president of the Czech Republic for his repeated expressions of racism and threats to the rights of Palestinian people and Palestinian refugees, on October 4.
Czech president Milos Zeman was quoted prior to his visit to the occupation state expressing his support to transfer the Czech embassy from Tel Aviv to occupied Jerusalem, in violation of international law and contrary to all international norms that do not recognize occupied Jerusalem as the capital of the occupation state.
Zeman’s comments and support for occupation and racism do not end here, however. He has made blatantly racist statements against the rights of Palestinian refugees, saying that they should be sent to labor in Saudi Arabia and the Emirates, saying that Palestinian refugees should take the place of the South Asian laborers who toil in those countries, in deeply abusive and exploitative conditions. Rather than demanding an end to the injustices faced by South Asian laborers in the Gulf, Zeman instead stated that Palestinian refugees should be forced there and the “camps…emptied.”
Zeman’s comments, translated by the Electronic Intifada, continued: “Palestinians have been living for tens and tens of years in refugee camps and in a way they are hostages of their fanatic religious leaders, whereas work in Arab countries is carried out by Pakistanis. I told Mr Norman Eisen [US ambassador in Prague], how about employing Palestinians in Saudi Arabia, Emirates and other countries? The camps will be emptied, there will be less suicide bombers, and people, after tens of years, will finally be leading a normal life. The solution to the Palestinian-Israeli problem cannot be found in giving way to evil, but by undercutting the terrorist basis. Because those who would otherwise be killing, will be working.”
Zeman’s shameful racism, which expressed itself in 2003 when, as prime minister, he compared then-PLO President Yasser Arafat with “Hitler,” deeply ironic as it was Arafat besieged inside his building at the time by assaulting racist occupation forces as the occupation military carried out daily attacks, mass arrests, and bloody invasions against Palestinians in order to enforce their occupying, racist, apartheid regime.
Furthermore, Zeman does not limit his racism to Palestinians but in fact to all Arabs and Muslims, labelling Muslims as “the enemy” and an “anti-civilisation spreading from North Africa to Indonesia. Two billion people live in it.”
The Czech people have a long history of support for Palestinians. The repeated racist public statements of Milos Zeman do not and cannot represent Czech people who have frequently expressed their solidarity and their stands against racism and the occupation and suppression of the Palestinian people. Zeman’s statements, his attacks on Palestinian refugees and threats to move the Czech embassy to occupied land, are an outrage that should be rejected by all people who care for justice around the world. It should also be noted that the Czech Republic cast the lone European vote against the recognition of Palestine at the United Nations.
The PFLP encourages all movements for justice for Palestine around the world to email, protest, and demand a change in Czech policy and denounce the racist policies, statements and threats of Czech president Milos Zeman.
The list of diplomatic missions and embassies of the Czech republic may be found here:
https://www.mzv.cz/jnp/en/diplomatic_missions/czech_missions_abroad/
Their UN missions in New York and Geneva may be emailed here: un.newyork@embassy.mzv.cz, mission.geneva@embassy.mzv.cz
 