
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine declared that the occupation’s ordering the imprisoned leader Bilal Kayed to administrative detention when he was scheduled to be liberated on June 13, after nearly 15 years in Israeli prisons, is a Zionist crime that comes in the context of a systematic targeting of the leaders and prisoners of the Popular Front.
This is particularly the case as Comrade Kayed has suffered from many violations, including over a year in solitary confinement, and neglect of his deteriorating health caused by the policy of isolation.
The Front demanded international institutions, in particular the International Committee of the Red Cross, uphold their responsibilities and push the occupation to revoke this criminal decision against Kayed. International silence on this action is participation in the crime, which will be used to set a precedent against other prisoners expecting to complete their sentences.
The PFLP in all prisons and detention centers of the occupation emphasized that it has made a clear and explicit decision to confront the detention order against Kayed after he completed his sentence through 14 and a half years of steadfastnes and confrontation. He is an example of a fighter who is never stopped by the oppression and attacks of the jailer and always stands at the forefront of comrades and fellow prisoners resisting the jailer and its tyranny.
The unjust isolation of Kayed for a year and a half was an attempt to break his will of struggle and challenge which burns in the hearts of the prisoners, a constant drive to complete the march of struggle. The occupation did not succeed in doing so; he completed his sentence and still his revolutionary spirit shines – thus, the occupation has carried out this decision in the belief and attempt that this will break his will.
The PFLP branch in Zionist prisons declared that they will confront the occupation’s action to order the prisoner Bilal Kayed with all strength and determination derived from the steadfastness of Comrade Bilal.
The first steps will be a hunger strike on June 14 and 15. This step is the first of a series of escalating steps to be carried out by all comrades in Zionist prisons and detention centers.
Comrade Bilal Kayed may enter an open hunger strike if the occupation authorities do not reverse the unjust order imprisoning him in administrative detention after 14 and one-half years of imprisonment and the completion of his sentence, saying that Kayed is in high spirits, dedicated to fight this new battle against the occupation with steadfastness and if necessary with an empty stomach.
In this context, the leadership of the prisoners’ movement said that prisoners of all Palestinian political trends and affiliations, in the forefront the prisoners of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, will carry out a series of protest steps which may escalate further if Kayed enters an open hunger strike.
The PFLP prisoners will escalate to an open hunger strike if Kayed announces that he will begin one, with an announced plan for gradual collective participation. The PFLP prisoners declared that they will not allow Kayed to fight this battle alone.
Indeed, Zionist repression forces attacked the sections of the PFLP prisoners in Eshel prison after they launched their first two-day hunger strike in support of their comrade, confiscating appliances and imposing sanctions. There is a high level of anger and tensions in the prisons as the attack on Kayed threatens all prisoners and their release, and comes alongside attempts to strip the prisoners of all their rights gained through struggle as a means of revenge by the extremist Zionist government.
The PFLP calls on the Palestinian people and all friends of justice and of Palestine in the world to take action to expose the racist occupation and its crimes against the Palestinian people and the prisoners in particular, including the crime of ordering Kayed to administrative detention after the completion of his sentence.
The PFLP pledged to Bilal and his family and the Palestinian people to struggle until Bilal has his freedom and the occupier will be forced to stop its ongoing attacks against the steadfast prisoners.
 
Comrade Bilal Kayed hails from the northern town of Asira al-Shamaliya, and was arrested on December 14, 2001, accused of membership in the PFLP and involvement in the resistance to the occupation. He is one of the most prominent leaders of the Front inside the prisons, was transferred frequently and isolated on multiple occasions due to his leadership.
 