
The crimes of the occupation will not go unpunished, said the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, in response to the occupation assault on Jenin refugee camp and the crimes committed by Zionist occupation forces at dawn on Saturday, March 22: “This is a new crime upon the series of ongoing crimes against the Palestinian people, as Zionist forces heavily attacked the Jenin refugee camp with various forms of weapons, firing on homes, and massacred resistance fighters who refused to surrender, killing three and wounding dozens.
We in the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine mourn the steadfast martyrs of Jenin refugee camp alongside the masses of the Palestinian people and seek a speedy recovery for the wounded. We emphasize the following points:
1. Our highest salutes to the masses of our people in the camp, and to the valiant resistance that confronted these assassination units with their courage, bravery and bare hands, who refused to surrender and stood by resistance and confrontation as the only means to repel this aggression, which has come time and time again to the Jenin refugee camp. Salutes to al-Qassam Brigades, who have always carried out epic heroism against the occupation.
2. The crimes of the occupation against the Palestinian people cannot be allowed to continue with impunity. We call upon all military wings and their arms to resist the occupation, hit its barracks and positions, and to take the option of overall military and political confrontation to defend our land and stop the ongoing aggression.
3. We call on the Palestinian Authority and its security forces to immediately end security coordination, which benefits the enemy in its campaign of arrest and murder against the youth of the resistance, especially as the martyrs today have been pursued by PA security agencies, who attempted to arrest them.
4. In these critical and difficult moments we call for an urgent national mobilization to develop a national alternative strategy to the dangerous policy of futile negotiations, which are exploited by the enemy to give cover to and escalate its forces’ crimes against the Palestinian people.”
The Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades, the armed wing of the PFLP, saluted the martyrs: “With salutes and pride in their steadfastness, their sacrifices, and their resistance, the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades salute the martyrs of Jenin, heroes of resistance and steadfastness: Hamza Abu al-Hija, a leader of al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Hamas; Mahmoud Abu Zeina, of the Al-Quds Brigades, the military wing of Islamic Jihad; and the martyr Yazan Mahmoud Bassem Jabarin, of Al-Aqsa Brigades of the Fateh movement. They were martyred in a heroic, unequal confrontation against the criminal occupation forces,and we wish a speedy recovery to the brave wounded.
“We emphasize that the resistance against the occupation will remain the firm choice of our people to achieve liberation and victory, we need unity to strengthen our resistance and confrontation with the occupation, that the blood of these martyrs will not have been shed in vain, and that the occupier inevitably will pay for his crimes. Glory to the martyrs and victory to the resistance!”
 
 