
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine mourns with great sorrow and grief its comrade and leader Tayseer Qubaa, who passed away on July 21 in the hospital in Amman, Jordan, at the age of 78.
With the departure of “Abu Fares,” the Front has lost one of its historical leaders and the Palestinian national movement has lost a tribune who always took up the cause of his people and his homeland to all the corners of the world.
Comrade Tayseer Qubaa was born on August 20, 1938 in the city of Qalqilya. From his childhood, he was conscious of the nature of the Zionist project erected on the land of Palestine in 1948, by the crimes of murder, destruction and dispossession of the Palestinian people. The impact of this crystallized his early consciousness of the need to resist this entity, which led him to join the ranks of the Arab Nationalist Movement and participate actively in the Palestinian student movement in Syria, before he was arrested after Syria’s separation from Egypt in 1961, and deported to Egypt.
Comrade Tayseer continued his activities in the ANM and its leadership in Egypt, and in the Palestinian student movement, where history will record his senior leadership role as head of the union as he worked for years to represent the Palestinian cause and people in various forums even before the creation of the PLO, as well as organizing Palestinian students and youth in Gaza, promoting cultural work, training, and upholding the rights of the Palestinian people throughout historic Palestine.
Following the Naksah of June 1967, Comrade Tayseer Qubaa returned to resist the Zionist entity from inside the occupied homeland, where he entered to help organize the resistance and its leadership. He was subsequently arrested in Jerusalem and spent nearly three years in prison. His arrest led to international reactions in the student and youth movements and organizations around the world, and his case was a victory for the cause of the Palestinian people and their just struggle.
Comrade Tayseer held many roles in the Front and at Palestinian and Arab national levels. He has been a member of the Central Committee and the Political Bureau, and engaged in organizational, political, and mobilization tasks in the Front. At the national level, he participated in the first conference of the Palestinian National Council in Jerusalem in 1964. He was also elected a member of the Executive Committee of the PLO and served as a member of the Central Council for many years. He was the first deputy chair of the Palestinian National Council from 1988 until his death. He represented Palestine in many Arab and international events and meetings, and in Arab, African and international parliaments, where he held various leadership positions.
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine pledges to our comrade Tayseer Qubaa to continue to struggle until we achieve the goals of our people to be free of occupation and colonization and achieve self-determination and national liberation.
Rest well, Comrade Abu Fares, we pledge to you and your friends and comrades that we will continue the march to victory.
Political Bureau
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
July 21, 2016
 