
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’ widely quoted remarks on the Palestinian right of return to a group of Israeli students pose a direct threat to the right of return and Palestinian refugee rights, said the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
The PFLP condemned the meeting with 270 Israeli students organized by the political parties of the Zionist entity and normalization NGOs as unacceptable, noting that it epitomizes the subordinate politics of appeasement and negotiations. Furthermore, the meeting undermines Palestinian and international efforts around the world to boycott the Zionist entity and reject normalization at a time when economic, academic and cultural boycott of the occupation state and its institutions is on the rise. This meeting, said the Front, is the logical culmination of the utterly failed path of Oslo and all of its subsequent negotiations for over twenty years.
Abbas’ statement at this event that he is “not looking to drown Israel with millions of refugees to change its nature,” and that he is seeking a “creative solution” is dangerous to the fundamental right of 6 million Palestinian refugees to return to the homes and lands from which they were expelled. The right of return is the core of the Palestinian cause; the refugee camps are the wellspring of the Palestinian national liberation movement; and for over 65 years, Palestinian refugees have been struggling to return home.
These statements indicate a direct and dangerous threat to Palestinian refugees’ rights and a willingness to conform to U.S. demands and the Kerry plan to liquidate the Palestinian cause and accept the racist so-called “Jewish state” in Palestine. Furthermore, they indicate the willingness of the Palestinian comprador bourgeoisie to advance their own interests at the expense of the Palestinian people and their national cause. The Front emphasized that the Kerry plan must be strongly opposed and defeated by all Palestinian forces, and that it will mobilize to defend the Palestinian people and their cause.
The Front, along with other organizations, participated in a demonstration against the meeting, demanding an end to negotiations and normalization, the rejection of the Kerry plan, and Palestinian unity and resistance to uphold and defend Palestinian rights, first and foremost, the right of return.
 
 