
Comrade Abu Ahmad Fuad, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, said on February 11, 2011 that the Egyptian people have changed the course of history in the region through their revolution, and expressed his confidence that the Egyptian people would see their revolution through to completion.
In an interview with Ajras al-Awda, Comrade Fuad that “We know that there are still battles to be fought, we know that the revolution is far from complete, we know that there are many forces still trying to make sense of the revolution, and we know that there is much time to come to congratulate each other; nonetheless, we warmly congratulate the great Egyptian people and declare that we stand with them until they achieve all of their demands.”
The fall of the regime and the departure of the dictator Hosni Mubarak make us confident that the revolution will be completed, said Comrade Fuad, and we trust that the revolutionary people will not stop until all of their aims are achieved. “The people of Egypt have paid a great price for their freedom and the freedom of their nation,” he said. “They accomplished the departure of the tyrant, whose hands were covered with the blood of the Egyptian people, whose coffers were filled with their looted wealth.”
Comrade Fuad emphasized that the challenge, and the struggle of the Egyptian people in the post-Mubarak era is rebuilding Egypt, and returning Egypt to the center of an Arab nation eager to welcome Egypt’s enhanced role, long lacking due to the natural result of years of the rule of tyrants.
He said that, looking towards Egypt, one could not help to be confident that Egypt would rise, and that Egypt’s people are confirming with every action that they will continue until victory. He called for trials and accountability of all of those who looted, plundered and victimized Egypt for years, yet failed to suppress its people’s dignity and commitment to rights and freedom.
Furthermore, said Comrade Fuad, “We are convinced, as we have always been, that the Egyptian people have created a shift in the history of the region; in fact, in world history. Egypt is the heart of the world, and the revolution pulses like an engine through its veins. The people of Egypt knew that their country had become junior partners with U.S. imperialism and Zionism, the very forces who were behind all of the disasters which befell Egypt and the Arab nation. We know that this is a big step towards returning the Palestinian issue back on the correct path to total liberation.”
He concluded his remarks by expressing his salutes to the Egyptian people, who have returned the Arab nation to life, to dignity and the road to liberation.
Furthermore, the Press Office of the PFLP issued a statement, congratulating the people of Egypt and the Arab nation for their victory against tyranny and subjugation, and saying that “the victory of the great Egyptian revolution is also a victory for the Palestinian cause and the Arab nation as a whole.”
The statement continued by noting that “the people of Egypt will be able to achieve the full objectives of their revolution for freedom, democracy and independence, and they will end the era of Camp David and restore Egypt’s historically significant role. The fall of tyranny and subordination in Egypt, in the form of the despotic regime of Hosni Mubarak, is a result of the steadfastness of Egypt’s masses, and this historical revolution was triggered by the Egyptian youth and their free people. The PFLP and all Arab people today welcome their victory that restores Egypt’s leading role in the protection of Arab national security and the Palestinian cause.”
Said the statement, “The triumph of the Egyptian people’s revolution is a turning point in the history of the Arab nation. It paves the way for the construction of a new Arab era with no room for the dominance of Zionism and imperialism or the subjugation of the capabilities of the Arab nation…These events in Egypt and the historic transformations to follow have direct consequences for the Palestinian cause and will help the Palestinian cause to end the Oslo agreements and its ensuing approach, and rebuild the Palestinian national movement.”
Comrade Dr. Rabah Muhanna, member of the Political Bureau of the PFLP, said on February 11, 2011 in Gaza City that the victory of the revolution in Egypt and Tunisia and the wind of democratic change in the Arab world show that the Arab people collectively say no to tyranny, no to U.S. hegemony, and no to poverty. He noted the leading role of workers, youth and women in the Egyptian movement, saying that the revolution came as a result of decades of injustice and oppression. He stressed that the Palestinian people consider the Egyptian revolution and the fall of the subservient reactionary Arab regimes as an important step on the road to liberation.
Furthermore, Comrade Muhanna expressed that it is time for the Palestinian people – in the West Bank, Gaza, Occupied Palestine 48, in the refugee camps, and everywhere in exile and diaspora, to speak with one voice and say that the people want to end the division. He called on the Palestinian masses to act under the slogan “The people want to end the division,” as a necessary step towards rebuilding the Palestinian liberation movement.
 