
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine continued events marking the 49th anniversary of its founding.
On December 11 in Deir al-Balah in central Gaza, the PFLP held a large mass rally commemorating the struggle of Comrade Sami Madi, a leader of the Front in Deir al-Balah and a martyr whose life was taken exactly one year before by occupation forces who fired on him as he protested at the borders of Gaza. The event included a speech by Comrade Jamil Mizher, member of the Political Bureau of the Front, who reviewed the history and the vision of the PFLP, continuing to march on a progressive path to liberation and return by all means of struggle, including armed struggle. He noted the difficulty of this stage of the Palestinian national movement and the ongoing attacks on the cause, especially amid the collapse of Palestinian institutions, the rise of the racist far right inside and outside the Zionist state and the role of imperialism in support of Zionism. He emphasized the need for comprehensive national unity and resistance. Shawki Madi, the son of the martyr, also addressed the participants, while dabkeh dancers, poets, and bands performed Palestinian songs and poetry.







In Rafah, Gaza on December 12, the PFLP and the Progressive Student Labor Front, youth groups, and others gathered for a volunteer day to clean up the main street of the city, emphasizing that the Front values voluntary work which was used to great value during the first intifada to promote community solidarity and unity. The volunteer day was followed on December 13 by a mass rally with a large number of participants. The festival grounds included large posters of PFLP founders George Habash and Abu Ali Mustafa, imprisoned General Secretary Ahmad Sa’adat, the struggler Bilal Kayed, the martyr Omar Nayef Zayed and the internationalist fighter Georges Ibrahim Abdallah. Comrade Mohammed Makkawi spoke at the event emphasizing the importance of unified Palestinian action to confront occupation and oppression and struggle for liberation. He denounced the monopolistic control of Palestinian institutions as well as so-called “initiatives” that attempt to undermine fundamental Palestinian rights, especially the right of return.






In Gaza City on December 12, a rally was held marking the 49th anniversary of the founding of the Front and the liberation of imprisoned Comrade Bilal Kayed, outside the International Committee of the Red Cross. Comrades of the Front and representatives of a wide range of national and Islamic forces attended the rally, holding posters of Comrade Kayed with slogans celebrating his victory over the jailer. Comrade Allam Kaabi spoke at the event, highlighting Kayed’s steadfastness and revolutionary will as well as the mass support for his struggle by the Palestinian people. He also saluted the family of recently released hunger strikers Mahmoud and Mohammed al-Balboul and emphasized the importance of solidarity with hunger-striking prisoners Anas Shadid, Ahmad Abu Fara and Ammar Hmour.






On December 13, the PFLP in Jabalya refugee camp in Gaza an event marking the anniversary of the founding of the Front and the liberation of Comrade Bilal Kayed. Kayed phoned into the event from his hometown in Asira al-Shamaliyeh, thanking the attendees for their presence and participation in the struggle and saluting the resistance of the masses of the Palestinian people in Gaza. He noted that he drew strength in his struggle from the determination and support of the Palestinian people and urged unity and action for freedom for Palestinian prisoners.



On December 17, the PFLP held a mass rally in the Shujaiyeh neighborhood of Gaza City to mark the 49th anniversary of its founding with a wide participation of members, cadres and supporters of the Front. Comrade Mohammed Toman spoke at the event, emphasizing the struggle of the Palestinian prisoners as a central issue for the Palestinian people confronting the Zionist enemy. He saluted imprisoned PFLP General Secretary, Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat and other leading prisoners including Marwan Barghouthi and Abdallah Barghouthi, and all Palestinian prisoners in Zionist jails. He emphasized the Front’s commitment to the right of return and the liberation of all of Palestine, as well as urging the escalation of the intifada and confrontation of the Zionist regime.








The PFLP in Syria lit a torch near the Yarmouk refugee camp with the participation of Palestinian factions and cadres of the Front on December 21, near a tent frequented by many of the people of the camp awaiting their return to Yarmouk camp. Comrade Omar Murad spoke at the event, emphasizing the importance of building the steadfastness of Palestinian refugees in the camp and struggling for the right of return, especially noting that this marked the fourth anniversary of the invasion of the camp by reactionary and obscurantist armed gangs. He emphasized that the Front would continue to carry forward the banner of resistance and struggle in all circumstances.

On December 18, the PFLP in Beirut marked the 49th anniversary of its founding with a central rally with the participation of a broad spectrum of Palestinian and Lebanese organizations and movements. Ahmad Bahaa El-Din Shaaban of the Socialist Party of Egypt, Hajj Hassan Huballah of Hezbollah, Hamma Hammami of the Popular Front of Tunisia, Hanna Gharib of the Lebanese Communist Party, Najah Wakim of the Arab Progressive Front, and Mohammed Raqi of the Moroccan Socialist Vanguard Democratic Party all spoke at the event. Comrade Abu Ahmad Fouad, Deputy General Sectetary of the Front spoke, emphasizing the commitment of the Front to national unity and the struggle for liberation. He called for the convening of the Palestinian National Council outside Palestine in any Arab country.


Progressive forces in Egypt organized an event on December 16 in the offices of the Karama party in Cairo to mark the 49th anniversary of the founding of the PFLP. The event included the screening of a film about the PFLP’s history as well as a talk by Comrade Mamoun Khalaf, speaking about the history of the PFLP and its analysis of the Palestinian struggle, emphasizing the Front’s commitment to resistance and liberation. Speakers from a range of Egyptian organizations including the Karama Party, the Socialist Popular Alliance Party, and the Egyptian Committee to Resist Normalization spoke in the event as did other Egyptian progressive figures.


 