
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine calls upon all to participate in the activities and campaigns that have been launched to support the Palestinian prisoners in occupation prisons and demand their freedom. Events, organized by the Palestinian prisoners’ movement, the Campaign to Free Ahmad Sa’adat, and organizations around the world supporting Palestine, will take place on October 17-25, demanding freedom for Palestinian prisoners and focusing on the case of imprisoned General Secretary Ahmad Sa’adat, denied family visits by occupation forces, and imprisoned Arab struggler Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, held in French prisons for 30 years.
The Front praised Sa’adat for rejecting the denial of family visits, refusing to sign the order denying him visits with his family, and noted that he is planning to launch an open hunger strike if the prison authorities do not cancel the order denying family visits and end the ongoing policy of depriving hundreds and thousands of prisoners of their most basic human rights. It urged all to raise their action and commitment to meet this challenge and stand with Sa’adat and his fellow Palestinian political prisoners as they demand their rights, especially the most basic right to family visits.
The Front said that the denial of family visits is being imposed in order to isolate Palestinian prisoners from the national movement, and a desperate measure aimed at breaking the will of the leadership of the prisoners’ movement. It noted that this is a new form of isolation, recalling that Sa’adat has been denied access to most of his family members since being kidnapped from Jericho prison on March 14, 2006 by invading occupation forces, and was held in isolation with no family visits at all for three years. It noted also that there are a large number of prisoners who are suffering from these unjust orders which escalated against them during the Zionist aggression against Gaza.
The Front demanded that Palestinian official institutions, especially embassies and missions around the world, uphold their responsibilities to their people on the issue of the prisoners, and called on international human rights bodies to take responsibility and expose and act against these violations of prisoners’ rights, saying that there is a need for concerted effort to “bang on the walls of the tank” and expose the struggles of the prisoners’ and their oppression inside the enemy prisons, in particular the orders of occupation authorities prohibiting family visits.
The Front also saluted and urged additional events in solidarity with Arab struggler Comrade Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, held in French prisons for 30 years, to put pressure on French authorities for his release. The struggle to free him is an extension of the struggle against the policy of imprisonment and isolation by the Zionist occupation against our Palestinian and Arab prisoners.
 
 