
Comrade Abu Ahmad Fuad, Deputy General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, held a press conference at Mar Elias refugee camp in Beirut, Lebanon on 8 September, announcing the decision of the PFLP to boycott the meeting of the Palestinian National Council called for 14 September in Ramallah.

The Central Committee of the Front met, inside and outside Palestine, on 5 September to issue its position:
**
The emergency session of the Central Committee of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine was convened in its full membership to review and discuss the political developments, particularly the invitation issued to the Palestinian National Council to convene in a regular or extraordinary session. The Central Committee, with recognition of its high national responsibility, discussed this matter and its implications and negative repercussions on the Palestinian arena. In particular, its departure from the existing internal agreements and national consensus, especially the Cairo Agreement of May 2011, calling for the rebuilding and re-formation of the Palestinian National Council through a democratic process of elections with a full system of proportional representation in Palestine and in the diaspora.
Based on the above, the Central Committee of the Front determined that it will not participate in this session, whether labeled an ordinary session or an emergency (exceptional) session, with emphasis on the following:
1. The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine reiterates its firm position in upholding the Palestine Liberation Organization as an inclusive national framework that can truly be the sole legitimate representative of our people in Palestine and in diaspora, and urges the activation and rebuilding of its institutions and the formation of a new PNC that embodies national unity, includes all factions and forces, and that is prepared through the provisional leadership framework and in accordance with legal principles.
2. The convening of the session discussed here would only serve to deepen the Palestinian internal crisis and prolong the division, emphasizing a path of parallel frameworks that undermine any sense of the PLO as an expression of oneness and unity in representation of the Palestinian people.
3. The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine warns of the exploitation of this PNC session to pass political projects being prepared in Washington and in European capitals, and a return to the futile and dangerous negotiations.
4. At the same time that we fully reject the convening of an ordinary or extraordinary session of the Palestinian National Council in this way, we also reject the path of the Hamas leadership in deepening the division, in particular engaging in indirect negotiations with the occupation under the guise of the need to lift the siege on Gaza and provide access to reconstruction.
In this context, the Front confirms that President Abu Mazen and his associates are attempting to use the PLO as a tool to sustain the devastating path of Oslo. The rejection of the PLO by Hamas also leads to the same result. Any weakening of the PLO as a true national framework for our people in Palestine and in diaspora, which converts it to a form and structure without any meaningful content, threatens the Palestinian national constants and identity.
To the Palestinian masses:
Our refusal to participate in this session of the PNC, to which we have been invited, does not mean that we are withdrawing or suspending the membership of the PFLP in all PLO institutions. Our approach to this issue stems from our conviction to uphold and rebuild the PLO as the sole legitimate representative of our people in Palestine and in the diaspora, as it and its liberation constitute the most important accomplishment of the Palestinian people in the modern Palestinian revolution.
Thus, the PFLP will continue its struggle through democratic means, to convene a session of the PNC according to the Palestinian national agreement in Cairo with the participation of all Palestinian political and social forces in Palestine and in exile. We will restore the PLO’s historical role, that must also be its current role, in the leadership of the struggle of our people to achieve their objectives for national liberation and democracy, so as to form a collective and unifying national framework whose pluralism strengthen its position and representativeness.
In this regard, the PFLP emphasizes the following:
1. The convening of a committee to develop the PLO, meeting under the provisional leadership framework agreed upon in Cairo, to discuss the means to achieve national reconciliation, including the election of a new and unifying National Council as provided for in the agreement. This will also require the formation of a preparatory committee to prepare for the convening of the PNC and the agreement on the date and venue of the meeting.
2. The need for a comprehensive and serious political review of the path of the Palestinian national movement since Oslo, and to learn its lessons, including the need for a national strategy that is based on the nature of the democratic struggle and the national liberation struggle waged by our people.
To the Palestinian masses:
We emphasize once again that our position does not undermine the unity of the PLO, but rather aims to right its diverted course and maintain its historic advances accomplished through the blood of the martyrs and the sacrifices of our people.
Glory to the martyrs, freedom to the prisoners. Victory is inevitable.
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
General Central Committee
5 September 2015
 