
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine denounced the repeated Zionist attacks against the city of Jerusalem and Al-Aqsa Mosque and collective punishment that has escalated over the last few days and hours, and the besieging of the village of Deir Abu Mashaal. Zionist forces have launched a campaign of attacks and arrests against the people of the village. These raids against the village will not extinguish the flame of resistance and will only intensify the determination of the Palestinian people to defend their rights, principles and holy sites.
The Front condemned the heavily armed forces of the Israeli police that stormed the courtyards of al-Aqsa Mosque, attacking worshippers and imposing closure on the Damascus Gate area. This military stranglehold is a retaliatory attack meant to divert attention from the clear failure of its military forces in preventing the heroic Jerusalem operation, which hit Zionist occupation forces in the holy city. These criminal practices reflect the essence of Zionist policy.
The Front denounced the prime minister of the Zionist enemy Netanyahu as a war criminal. His threats to take unprecedented action against the city of Jerusalem and the village of Deir Abu Mashaal and the orders to demolish the homes of the families of the strugglers who carried out the Jerusalem operation are empty baloons directed at the Zionist population after failing once more in Jerusalem and in an attempt to again cover up the corruption charges that have arisen once more. The demolition of homes and the policy of collective punishment by the occupation and its soldiers have never succeeded in smothering the spirit of resistance or breaking the popular support of the masses of our people. Instead, these attacks only fuel the flame of intifada and resistance.
The PFLP saluted the steadfastness of the Paletinian people in occupied Jerusalem and Deir Abu Mashaal village who continue to act to confront the crimes of the occupation. It called on the Palestinian masses to support their steadfastness by acting to break the siege on the city and the village, calling on all to turn any home demolitions into a battle with the enemy to prevent and stop this policy and expose it before the world. The aim of this policy is an attempt to break the will of the masses and weaken their embrace of resistance.
The Front also urged the Palestinian, Arab and international media to display the images of repression, abuse and closure on the steadfast village of Deir Abu Mashaal.
The Front warned the Zionist enemy that for every demolished home in Deir Abu Mashaal, Palestinian fighters will emerge from the rubble of these homes to respond to the crime as occurred in the courageous Promise of al-Buraq operation.
The PFLP emphasized its deepest greetings of pride for the families of the martyrs, their mothers in particular, for their steadfastness and national and human pride and strength.
 
 