
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine denounced the hearing at the Ramallah Magistrate’s Court on Sunday, March 12 in the trial of the martyr Basil al-Araj and his friends on charges of possessing unlicensed weapons. This hearing is yet another stain on the Palestinian Authority and its security coordination with the occupation.
The Palestinian Authority’s security forces arrested the martyr and his comrades and subjected them to physical and psychological torture in an attempt to force them to confess in the interests of security coordination with the occupation. In a new scandal and with utter disregard to the Palestinian people and the families and comrades of the martyr, the Authority held the hearing in the trial on these ridiculous and unacceptable charges of unlicensed possession of a weapon.
The Front demanded the PA leadership immediately end the practice of security coordination and apologize to the Palestinian people. The martyr Basil al-Araj and his comrades are heroes and national examples of pride for the Palestinian people. The insistence on holding this kangaroo court despite the martyrdom of Basil and the arrest of his comrades by the occupation represents a continued targeting of the resistance represented by the martyr in word, thought and deed. Instead, it is those responsible for their arrest and torture who should be held accountable for the continuation of security coordination in service to the occupation.
The weapons of Basil, his comrades and the resistance are legitimate weapons, and the illegitimate weapons are those which are used to hunt down the resistance while remaining silent in the face of occupation and settler assaults on the Palestinian people. The Front demanded the Palestinian Authority immediately end this devastating practice of security coordination with the occupation.
The Front also praised the movement of youth highlighting the issue of the trial of Basil and his comrades. The protest events in Palestinian, Arab and international cities are a cry in the face of injustice that demands recognition and action.
 