
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine called upon the masses of our people and the resistance factions to be prepared to confront the occupation in the event of the escalation of aggression once more in light of the ongoing threats against the Gaza Strip and in particular the occupation bombing Gaza once more at dawn on Saturday December 20.
The Front noted that the Zionist occupation has not stopped its aggression against the Strip for one moment and it continues in various forms: of ongoing and relentless siege, closure of crossings, blocking reconstruction, and the various threats of war by officials, and the occupier’s bombing is only part of this aggression. It is not the first and it will not be the last.
The Front emphasized that the continuing situation in the Strip confirms the possibility of a return to the period of the assault and perhaps even more dangerous than that time, especially as the Zionist political scene is on the verge of an early election, and the Palestinian people will once again be made to pay the price for this election.
The PFLP emphasized the urgent need for Palestinian national unity on all levels: military, political and social, drawing lessons from the Palestinian steadfastness and the bravery of the resistance in the July-August aggression on Gaza, with mass struggle in Jerusalem, occupied Palestine ’48 and the West Bank to confront the crimes of the occupation and through serious work to form a united front of all the resistance factions and build unity on the political level that requires the formulation of a national strategy and a political program that determines actions to confront the occupation and its dangerous projects, that must include a full break with the path of negotiations, ending the division and restoring unity.
The Front emphasized that the current challenges require all to take up their responsibilities to support the steadfastness of our people and alleviate their suffering in light of the destruction of infrastructure, the persistence of social problems, in order to protect the Palestinian people and their society in the event of renewed aggression.
Further, the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades, the armed wing of the PFLP, said that “responding to the Zionist occupation’s violations of the ceasefire in the Gaza Strip, and its crimes against the Palestinian people, is a sacred duty. All Palestinian political and military forces must respond to these attacks.” Abu Jamal, the spokesperson for the Brigades, noted that this violation of the ceasefire is not the first of its kind, urging a united resistance of all Palestinian forces to respond to the enemy’s continued abuses everywhere and struggle together for return and liberation.
“The abuses and violations carried out by the occupation…are part of the same war of extermination, including those we see in the recent aggression on the Gaza Strip, the attacks in Jerusalem and in the West Bank, the repression of the prisoners inside Israeli jails. These reflect the nature of the criminal enemy that aim to destroy the cultural, national and historical identity of our people,” said Abu Jamal.
Escalating the struggle and confrontation with the Zionist enemy is the only way to achieve victory and liberation for Palestine, the AAMB spokesperson said.
It should also be noted that the fishers in Gaza are subjected almost daily to the arrest and shooting, and the confiscation of their boats from occupation warships stationed along the coast of the Gaza Strip.
 