
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine stands with the people’s movements and popular classes of Brazil in denouncing and demanding an end to the US-supported “constitutional coup” taking place against the elected government of President Dilma Rousseff.
The coup is being orchestrated by the most right-wing, elite, major capitalist sectors of the Brazilian economy, in league with global capital and US imperialism. Right-wing foundations in the United States that fund attacks on labor and popular movements, and fund Zionist lobby organizations in the US and EU for anti-Palestinian campaigns, are also funding the Brazilian right-wing elite campaign against the government of Dilma Rousseff and the Workers’ Party.
The first steps of the coup government of Michel Temer have been the removal of ministries for human rights, women, and social justice and demands to raise the housing rates of poor people who have access to social housing, within the next month. Temer’s elite-driven regime seeks to impose a policy of austerity on the poorest 5% of the country and has announced the goal of seeking new trade and economic agreements with the United States and European Union – rejecting Brazil’s leading role in developing the independent economies of Latin America. Temer himself was a source and informant to the United States Embassy on Brazilian politics, as revealed by WikiLeaks. Israeli and Zionist media have expressed their excitement about the imposition of former Vice-President Temer, sayiing that he is expected to “improve the country’s relations with Israel” – doubtlessly at the expense of the Palestinian, and Brazilian, people.
The Brazilian social movements, such as the Landless Workers’ Movement (MST) who have consistently stood with the Palestinian people, are fighting this coup in the streets and defending Brazil’s democracy. And we stand with the workers, the peasants, and the landless of Brazil – and the 54 million whose votes are being burned by the promulgators of this coup – in demanding their rights, their democracy, and a truly radical social program that implements real land reform and confiscates the power of corporate and landowning elites.
Just as in Brazil, local elites and US imperialism are also working together in an attempt to destabilize Venezuela and bring down the Bolivarian Revolution. We stand also with the Venezuelan people and leadership resisting these attacks. As Argentine writer Carlos Aznarez writes, the attacks on Latin America – including the right-wing push in Argentina and coups in Paraguay and Honduras – are “part of the same strategy that the heads of Washington DC implemented in the Middle East, destroying one country after the other.”
We see the results of United States imperialism in the Arab region – the destruction of Iraq, the devastation of Libya, the tearing apart of Syria, the ongoing Zionist Nakba in Palestine – and the role of regional elites such as the Gulf monarchies in imposing and enforcing the destructive power of imperialism.
Brazil and the people of Brazil have stood with the Palestinian people. We in the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, stand with the people of Brazil in denouncing this coup and demanding the defense of democracy in Brazil and throughout Latin America.
 