
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine convened a press conference in front of the International Committee of the Red Cross in Gaza City, on the latest developments of the hunger strike of administrative detainees in Zionist prisons, with leaders of the PFLP and representatives of the national and Islamic forces, and prisoners’ families.
Comrade Allam Kaabi, former prisoner and leader of the Prisoners’ Committee of the Front, opened the press conference by announcing a series of upcoming events inside and outside Palestine to support the striking prisoners. He noted that the Zionist occupation bears full responsibility for the lives of the hunger striking prisoners, urging international institutions and particularly the ICRC, to intervene and expose the situation of our comrades and the difficult conditions being imposed upon them.
Kaabi warned of the danger to prisoners on hunger strike, especially in light of intentional obfuscation of their health situations while isolating them from the outside world and without any medical follow-up or treatment, noting that this is a deliberate action by the Zionist prsion administration. This intense secrecy, alongside the lack of follow-up means that they are being sentenced to slow death, and that their difficulties will increase in the coming hourse, said Kaabi.
He stressed the importance of a broad popular response to the call of the prisoners and the comrades in the Prison Branch to launch a comprehensive campaign to support them and use all options available to support the steadfastness of the prisoners; this battle is the battle of the entire Palestinian people.
He also called upon Palestinian official bodies and institutions to deal seriously with the prisoners’ issues, especially administrative detention, medical negligence, and other practices which flagrantly violate international law and must be brought before international human rights bodies and the International Criminal Court.
Kaabi called on the Palestinian masses in the diaspora and international supporters to besiege the embassies of the occupation and complicit international institutions involved in aggression against our people, urging international boycott actions to highlight the situation of the prisoners.
He urged the formulation of a national strategy to highlight the prisoners’ issue, their suffering and the violaions of the occupation against them, including the presentation of prisoners’ issues within schools, universities and other educational institutions.
Nashaat al-Wahidi delivered a message from the Prisoners’ Committee of the National and Islamic Forces, saluting the imprisoned leaders, Ahmad Sa’adat, Marwan Barghouti, Raed al-Saadi, Emad Asfour, Basil Kundukli, Fouad Shubaki, Lina Jerboni and all of the Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails.
He continued, saying that the international community which speaks about human rights has done nothing to defend the human rights of Palestinian prisoners, who are subject to systematic Zionist campaigns aimed at undermining their steadfastness. He also called for organizing a national Palestinian conference for a unified strategy to rescue prisoners from the death grip that captures them inside the Zionist occupation prisons.
 