
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine salutes the legendary steadfastness of the revolutionary, the imprisoned General Secretary Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat, continuing on his open hunger strike and presenting a solid model of struggle even in the most difficult of circumstances.
The Front confirmed that it stands with its leader, the leadership of the strike, and the Palestinian prisoners’ movement in the battle for freedom and dignity that they are waging in order to achieve their just collective demands. The occupation is attempting to abort the strike by imposing collective punishment on the striking prisoners in an attempt to exhaust them and undermine their resolve. These attempts will not achieve their goal, and the prisoners are determined to continue in this battle.
The Front also praised the spirit of national unity represented by Comrade Sa’adat during his legal visit today, including his confidence in his fellow strike leaders, in particular the leader Marwan Barghouthi. Sa’adat emphasized the tricks of the Zionist forces as desperate attempts to break the prisoners’ steadfastness and morale, and called all to beware of tricks and rumors marketed by parties, especially the occupation, in order to stop the strike.
The PFLP warns against attempts by some parties to circumvent the strike and open a dialogue with the occupation, emphasizing that the leadership of the hunger strike, as expressed repeatedly by the prisoners, is the only body authorized to represent the strike.
The Front also demanded the International Committee of the Red Cross carry out its humanitarian responsibilities in following up on the prisoners’ situation, especially the conditions of the strikers, and to clearly stand against the occupation’s violation of the prisoners’ rights, saying that the ICRC has abandoned its necessary role.
Further, the PFLP urged all of its branches and organizations in occupied Palestine and in exile that the battle of the prisoners is the number one priority until we achieve victory.
The Front concluded by emphasizing the need to continue to escalate this struggle and the popular national movement at all levels in support of the prisoners’ cause and this battle of dignity. On the anniversary of the Nakba and the displacement of the Palestinian people, the Front urges all to march and organize under the banner of “Return and Liberation.”
 