
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine continued its efforts to expose, confront, and educate regarding the dangers of the Kerry plan and the ongoing negotiations with three seminars in Maghazi, Beit Lahiya and Khan Younis on February 5 and February 8.
Speaking in Maghazi, Comrade Qattawi Abu Saleh reviewed the history of the Palestinian revolution and the period of weakness and vulnerability it currently faces, particularly amid the project of negotiations. Without significant Arab or international support, such negotiations have always and continue too threaten dire consequences for the Palestinian cause.
He discussed the impact of internal Palestinian division on the continued weakness of the Palestinian movement, warning that it gave greater strength to the liquidationist projects being proposed at the moment.
Comrade Hani Khalil spoke about the serious risks threatening the Palestinian cause as a result of first, the Oslo agreement and now the threats of ongoing negotiations particularly targeting the right of return, noting that such agreements seriously harm the interests of the Palestinian cause and the rights of the Palestinian people and betray the efforts of the martyrs, wounded and prisoners over decades.
Participants in the event spoke about the need to form a united front to reject these negotiations and raise awareness among the Palestinian people to mobilize their energies to confront these conspiracies before the nation and the world.
In Khan Younis, Comrade Hani Thawabteh and Comrade Mohammed Mekkawi reviewed the track record of negotiations in the Palestinian cause, which have been futile and harmful. Currently, the officials involved in negotiations, they said, are flouting the decisions of the Palestinian national consensus to reject them. Mekkawi warned that the Kerry plan is deeply dangeous to the Palestinian cause, accepting Zionist demands in full and attempting to liquidate all Palestinian national demands, first and foremost the rights of return, self-determination and sovereignty.
He warned that this plan opens the door to systematic resettlement of Palestinian refugees as a substitute for their land from which they were forced. Mekkawi added that the Kerry plan aims to completely deny the right of return, adopt the Zionist position, create a so-called state that is demilitarized and has no sovereignty, while the Zionist occupation continues to control the Jordan Valley and its massive settlement blocs, while exercising full economic control over the region. He demanded immediate withdrawal from these nominations and an end to this so-called settlement process.
He said that all Palestinian forces must build a program of struggle in accordance with a national resistance program that entirely rejects the Kerry scheme and other plans aimed at liquidating the Palestinian cause, while advancing the movement of our people and activating overall popular resistance to the occupation. He stresed that popular pressure is necessary to prevent the acceptance of this scheme.
In Beit Lahiya, Comrades Wael Alneirab and Tariq Abu al-Khair presented on the developments in the Palestinian arena and the danger of the Kerry plan, saying that the plan “aims to liquidate thwe Palestinian cause.”
Comrade Abu al-Khair said that the Front is determined to educate in order to confront the dangers posed by the Kerry plan, saying that it is mainly based on the liquidation of the rights of the Palestinian people, particularly the right of return. He reviewed the plan and its dangers to the Palestinian cause, saying that this meeting is part of a process to make the public aware of what is being planned in the negotiation rooms in order to confront the conspiracies targeting the Palestinian people.
 