
The Prison Branch of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine confirmed that, in light of the open hunger strike taking place in the occupation prisons, new efforts are being made to rehabilitate national coordination and formation of a unified body to mobilize prisoners’ struggle after striking prisoners uniformly rejected a new proposal from Zionist authorities to end their strike.
In a press statement, the prison branch said that the striking prisoners rejected proposed agreements submitted to them by the Zionist prison authority and the Shin Bet, seeking to end the strike which has been taking place since April 24, demanding an end to administrative detention. Hundreds of prisoners are now on strike.
The proposal stated that there would be only one extension of the administrative detention period, for six months only, before releasing or charging and trying administrative detainees. Administrative detainees are currently held without charge or trial for indefinitely renewable periods of up to six months; some are held for years at a time. This proposal is not new, said the Prison Branch; it was proposed and rejected by striking prisoners in 2012, during the Karameh hunger strike that included thousands of Palestinian prisoners.
This proposal aims to undermine and halt the hunger strike, said the Prison Branch, and the prisoners are agreed to continue the strike until they completely close the file of administrative detention.
The Prison Branch said that next week will see growing protests by prisoners especially in Ramon, Nafha and Naqab prisons, in support of the striking prisoners, including returning meals, and in rejection of the proposed law to force-feed striking prisoners for which the occupation is seeking approval. The prison branch stated that this law is completely unacceptable and threatens a dangerous escalation in the prisons, emphasizing the urgency for international action to stop the occupation’s violations and defend prisoners’ rights. The hunger strike is a right of the prisoners and a means of pressure in order to obtain their just rights, said the Prison Branch.
They renewed their call for the masses of the Palestinian and Arab people and all who care for justice and rreedom in the world, at both popular and official levels, to increase and strengthen their actions in support of the prisoners on hunger strike, whose situation is now entering a critical stage. The Zionist occupation is relying on people being busy or inattentive during the World Cup and next month during Ramadan in order to thwart the strike, said the Prison Branch.
The Prison Branch demanded that any reconciliation process must invest extensive energy in supporting the prisoners’ cause. There is a responsibility to form a government of national agreement aimed at escalating the struggle of our people and particularly the issue of prisoners, and not what appears to be forming instead – a government of national acquiescence to concede to the occupation and the U.S. government and sideline and discard the prisoners’ issue and their suffering.
Responding to this urgent situation, the PFLP in Tulkarem said that, “As the prisoners’ strike exceeds its 45th day, the situation requires all political forces to unite to build more national and popular events to support the prisoners’ struggle…to develop the solidarity movement for the prisoners’ cause and their hunger strike.” The PFLP in the West Bank called for broader solidarity with the striking prisoners, saying that “their lives are facing a real threat.” It urged the Executive Committee of the PLO to act urgently to take practical steps to support prisoners and save their lives, and for the UN Security Council and General Assembly to compel the occupation state to respond to prisoners’ demands and abolish the administrative detention policy.
The Progressive Labor Union Action Front in Gaza protested in front of the International Committee of the Red Cross in Gaza City on June 5, calling for international action and accountability to end the violations of prisoners’ rights and bring administrative detention to an end. “The Palestinian people’s will is stronger than the occupation,” said Comrade Wael Abu Libdeh. In Nuseirat, international activists in solidarity with Palestine joined comrades from Nuseirat refugee camp and Nuseirat town to carry pictures of the prisoners and Palestinian flags, posting slogans on the walls and distributing them to passing vehicles in support of the Palestinian prisoners.
On June 4, the PFLP organized a march and rally outside the ICRC in Gaza City, carrying flags, banners, and signs with the slogan, “Water + Salt = Dignity”. Comrade Allam al-Kaabi, liberated prisoner, spoke at the rally, saying that “over the years of the modern Palestinian revolution, the prisoners have borne the brunt of the sacrifices made by the masses of our people and have participated in all of the major achievements of the national liberation movement…the battle of the prisoners is that of the entire Palestinian people and they must not be left alone in the battle of the empty stimachs with the Zionist enemy.” He denounced the efforts of the Palestinian Authority leadership to cancel the Ministry of Prisoners as an action that comes in response to U.S., Western and Zionist demands, saying that this act will negatively impact follow-up on the case of prisoners and make them a secondary matter, held hostage to the agenda of the PA, but also noted that the Ministry has always been marred by many shortcomings and that the Front has demanded repeatedly that its responsibilities be expanded beyond those of a subsidiary of the PA.
The PFLP in Bureij set up a solidarity tent with the striking prisoners, distributing cups of salt and water to participants, passers-by and motorists with slogans, “Salt + Water = dignity,” and “Free Palestinian Prisoners,” on June 3, while in Ramallah, student organizers from Bir Zeit University, including students of the Democratic Pole, the Committee on Palestinian Prisoners, and the Boycott Committee, rallied downtown, carrying Palestinian flags and pictures of dozens of prisoners and administrative detainees on hunger strike. The marchers demanded an end to security coordination with the occupation, and called for popular intifada and struggle everywhere the Palestinian people are, with all forms of struggle to force the enemy to retreat from its criminal repression of our prisoners and our people.
In Beit Hanoun, the PFLP and Islamic Jihad organized a joint tent of solidarity with the striking prisoners in northern Gaza, with wide participation from families of prisoners and cadres, members and supporters of the PFLP and Jihad, who plan to coordinate further on prisoner support activities.

			#gallery-1 {
				margin: auto;
			}
			#gallery-1 .gallery-item {
				float: left;
				margin-top: 10px;
				text-align: center;
				width: 33%;
			}
			#gallery-1 img {
				border: 2px solid #cfcfcf;
			}
			#gallery-1 .gallery-caption {
				margin-left: 0;
			}
			/* see gallery_shortcode() in wp-includes/media.php */
		



























 
 