
The Zionist occupation army and hordes of settlers are carrying out a rabid criminal attack against the Palestinian masses in the West Bank and bombing the Gaza Strip, after the disappearance of three settlers at the hands of the heroes of the resistance. These attacks are part of the continued aggression against our people in occupied Palestine, said the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
The ferocious campaign of abuse and criminality has included raids, searches, roadblocks, settler violence, the killing of the martyr Ahmad AlSabreen and wounding of a number of people in Jalazone camp, attacking, ransacking and destroying homes during the raids and abduction of hundreds, with beating, insults, and terror. This escalation, said the PFLP in a statement, has reached the highest degree of repression, began months ago and is not the result of the operation of the disappearance of the settlers only. Jerusalem is witnessing a rapid process of Judaization and repeated attacks, in addition to the acceleration of settlement building in the West Bank, the suppression of the prisoners and mass movements in support of our hunger striking administrative prisoners and the killing of Palestinians in cold blood, as well as the continual blockade of Gaza and repeated attacks.
These all demonstrate the the goal of the enemy is the Judaization of the land and the uprooting of its rightful owners and their displacement. These waves of repression and terror rise to the level of comprehensive war crimes that affect everything on the land of Palestine from the river to the sea, and so we emphasize the following:
1. We salute the resistance and steadfastness of our people in al-Khalil (Hebron) and all of our people in the occupied West Bank and confirm that the repression and abuse will only increase the resilience and determination to continue the resistance until the liberation of our entire national soil and the defeat of the Zionist project in all of Palestine.
2. We emphasize the right of our people to practice resistance and struggle in all forms, particularly armed struggle and the capture of soldiers and settlers. This enemy and its multiple layers of oppression, racism and criminality cannot be defeated except through the exercise of all forms of struggle.
3. We emphasize the need to continue the mass movement and resistance to support the hunger striking administrative detainees, who have now been on strike for over 55 days, despite the intransigence of the enemy and its escalating repression in order to subjugate the heroic prisoners. We are all required to expand the circle of engagement with the enemy to defend our prisoners, our towns, our villages, our land and our people everywhere, to broaden this confrontation in all forms, including points of contact with the enemy, the bypass roads, soldiers and settlers.
4. We demand the Palestinian Authority immediately end the devastating security coordination with the enemy, which aims to use the Authority as a whip on their own people and undermine the successes of the resistance. The conscience of the Palestinian people is with the resistance, all of the negotiations with the enemy in the destructive Oslo stage have proven to everyone that the enemy does not respect international law, conventions or agreement, refused to release the last agreed group of prisoners and has escalated repression against our people in all areas. The enemy only understands the language of force, but the same language must not be used to assist the enemy, and all Palestinians must form a protective shield for the heroes of the resistance.
5. We call on our brothers in Fateh and Hamas to end petty disputes and transform the reconcilation process to one of national unity and unifying the national movement in order to unite the resistance and serve as a framework to lead the battle against Zionist aggression.
 