
The Central Committee of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine expresses its mourning to the Palestinian people, the Arab people and all free people of the world, for its founder and the leader of its march, Dr. George Habash, Al-Hakim, founder of the Arab Nationalist Movement and the PFLP.
With the martyrdom of the founder, the Palestinian people and the Arab nation have lost an icon and a symbol of its resistance, who was firm and committed throughout seven decades of struggle against the enemy of the Palestinian and Arab people, and in confrontation with the forces of oppression, hegemony and injustice.
A great leader has fallen, but his ideas, principles and vision will not, as he held to his principles with a courageous and truthful commitment in fighting imperialism and the defeatist forces. Despite all conditions and circumstances, Al-Hakim was always committed to the liberation of Palestine, all of Palestine, from the river to the sea. Palestine has lost today one of its greatest noble committed men. Glory to Al-Hakim!
We pledge to our people and to our great leader and the symbol of our struggle that we will continue to march and struggle on his path and with his method, with the courage and will of free people, until the total liberation of all Palestinian national soil. 
Central Committee
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
January 26, 2008
The PFLP will be accepting condolences at Rashad al-Shawa cultural center on Sunday, January 27 for three days, from 11:00 AM – 2:00 PM, and 4:00 PM – 8:00 PM in Gaza.
In Bethlehem, the Front and the coordinating committee for Palestinian factions will hold a symbolic funeral for Al-Hakim, which will start at 3:00 PM in front of the Martyrs’ Memorial in Deheisheh refugee camp. Condolences will be accepted in Al-Fainaq (Phoenix) hall.The funeral in Amman, Jordan will take place on Monday, January 28, 2008, at 1:00 PM, from Amman Hospital to the Orthodox Church, and then proceeding after prayers to Sahab cemetery, where the funeral will conclude. Condolences will be received at the headquarters of the Palestinian National Council.
The Palestinian embassy in Amman will be open Sunday, January 27, 2008 and after as well for receiving condolences.
Long live the revolution!
Glory to Al-Hakim and all martyrs!
January 26, 2008
 