
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine calls upon all to protest against the resumption of negotiations, and to say that liquidation projects will not pass and we will not allow negotiations that threaten the rights of our people.
The rallies will take place on Sunday, July 28, 2013
12:00 noon: Palestine Square, Gaza City
1:00 pm: Orthodox Club, Ramallah, from which a march will proceed
In order to participate in the rallies against negotiations with the Zionist state in occupied Ramallah, gather in the following locations in these cities. Transportation is available to Ramallah:
Jenin – 10:30 am: Gather in front of al-Jazara Cafe
Tulkarem – 10:30 am: Gather in front of the central bus station
Khalil (Hebron) – 9 am: Gather in front of al-Khalil municipality
Nablus – 10:30 am: Gather in front of the office of the Progessive Youth Union downtown

The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine said that the resumption of negotiations and this indication of willingness to concede, against the position of the Palestinian national consensus and even the decisions of the PLO institutions themselves, is deeply dangerous to the Palestinian national cause.
The PLO leadership’s decision is a severe violation of the national consensus positions, and the decisions of Palestinian institutions and the PLO Cntral Council. To resume negotiatons with the Israeli government, under US pressure and authority, without regard to the popular and political positions, indicates a clear willingness to make concessions and violate the rights of the Palestinian people and our national constants.
We are aware of the seriousness of this action, and the severe consequences which will impact the rights of the Palestinian people and damage Palestinian unity. The PFLP confirms the following:
1) We renew our rejection of the resumption of negotiations and bilateral talks, and emphasize the need to reverse this decision, which violated the decision of the Central Council not to return to negotiations unless certain conditions were met, including freezing settlement activity, negotiations being based on international law and UN resolutions, and the release of Palestinian prisoners.
2) The PFLP calls upon the masses of our people, the political forces, and community groups, to engage in activities to organize and mobilize the people to express their rejection of the negotiations and pressure the Palestinian leadership to not go to Washington and cancel these absurd negotiations, because they pose risks for concessions that violate Palestinian fundamental constants and national rights.
3) The issue of the Palestinian national cause must be returned to the United Nations, and we must join international institutions and the International Criminal Court, to prosecute the leaders of the occupation entity as war criminals.
4) The subservience to the American administration was accomplished at the expense of the Palestinian people. This represents a serious concession and violates the popular rejection of the role of the U.S. government, which is fully in favour of the Zionist occupation, and its strategy, which is based on preserving the security of the occupation state, serving its interests in the region, and exploiting the internal situations of Arab countries to attempt a “solution” via a settlement to liquidate the Palestinian cause.
5) The PFLP renewed its rejection of Netanyahu’s so-called “economic peace,” security, and the “state with provisional borders,” and reaffirmed that our national rights are inalienable. The Palestinian people will not barter their rights to full sovereignty, their capital Jerusalem, liberation, independence and return for money.
6) The Popular Front calls for an immediate end to security coordination with the occupation, and to hold accountable the figures of normalization that meet with Zionist leaders day and night, and emphasizes the need to hold them accountable in front of our people and their national institutions.
7) The Front emphasizes the need to adopt an alternative national democratic strategy, rejecting the approach and the obligations of Oslo, based on the resistance in all of its forms, bringing the Palestinian issue to the United Nations to implement the relevant UN resolutions and international law, and rearranging the Palestinian house on the basis of democratic elections according to proportional representation.
The PFLP commits to the Palestinian masses that it will continue to defend the national cause and principles, stand strong to confront all settlement initiatives, submissive approaches, absurd negotiations and normalization. The PFLP calls upon the Palestinian people to express their rejection of these negotiations and to engage in all forms of popular pressure to end the monopoly over nationa decision-making, restore national unity, and uphold the path of resistance and steadfastness as our way to achieve the goals of our people, preserve their rights and national dignity. As part of this, the PFLP calls upon the people to participate in the demonstrations organized for this purpose tomorrow, Sunday, July 28, 2013 both in Gaza and Ramallah, where a a rally will take place at noon in Palestine Square in Gaza City, and a march in Ramallah will begin at 1 pm from the Orthodox Club.
Victory for our People
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
 