
Statement issued by the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine against the Oslo agreement and its economic and security annexes toward escalating the confrontation with the Zionist enemy
To the heroic masses of our people…
While the Zionist occupation continues its process of killing, destruction and genocide against our people, our land and our cause, and pursues a policy of liquidation of anything Palestinian, with full support from US imperialism and the complicity of international and Arab officialdom.
As part of the movement inside Arab countries that began the so-called Arab Spring, our people are standing up again and regaining their role as the vanguard of resistance for dignity, freedom, independence and the achievement of our full rights, including a growing popular movement against price increases and poor living conditions. This can only intensify to reject this miserable social and economic reality resulting from the continued presence of the occupation and the continuation of the political agreements and economic and security addendums with the occupation. The Palestinian Authority is an outlet for these agreements, which have led to the increased dependence of the Palestinian economy as an appendage to the occupation economy, increasing poverty, unemployment and a declining standard of living, yet has continued to rely on negotiations and refused to break with the occupier or truly struggle for our full national rights.
Our brave people,
In light of the reality in which we live and our concerns for our national, social and economic issues, we in the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine stress the following:

the front stands alongside our people, particularly the poor and working class and their economic, social and political demands.
our people have the right to democratic expression, in various groups and sectors, free of attack
there is an urgent need to organize our popular movement in various sectors and institutions through popular leadership and in a democratic manner
we must escalate the confrontation and resistance with Zionist occupation as the primary reason for the struggles of our people
the need to end the political agreements with the Zionist occupation, at the head, the Oslo Agreement, and its economic and security annexes. This demands that the Authority must immediately end its implementation of these agreements at all levels, including changing the economic policies imposed by these agreements and ending security coordination with the occupation
initiate a popular Palestinian national dialogue to carry out a comprehensive review of our present and future Palestinian reality, end internal division, and restore national unity and rebuilding a PLO that is democratically united including all forces under a resistance political program.

Heroic people…
Our people can overcome this stage with steadfastness and persistence, achieving dignity, freedom and independence, and has struggled immensely in order to achieve its national democratic objectives and its social liberation objectives. The national and social struggles are interrelated and inseparable.
We lend all support to the growing movement of our people and its just demands to end the Oslo agreement and is economic and security annexes, and to escalate the confrontation with the Zionist enemy.
 