

The following statement was issued by the Progressive Student Action Front at the Islamic University of Gaza:
The barbarous Zionist aggression against our Palestinian people in Gaza and the massacres committed by the occupier against our people and society with international complicity in these crimes, have impacted hundreds of thousands of Palestinians: dead, wounded and displaced from their homes and families, and hundreds of institutions of civil society have been destroyed in a systematic attack.
This occupier has been disabused of the notion that it can keep its soldiers on our land by the valiant struggle of the resistance and the steadfastness and resilience of the Palestinian people, who engaged in the noblest struggle and battles against the Zionist oppression and killing machine.
The Zionist occupation’s bombing of the Islamic University of Gaza with warplanes violates all international norms and humanitarian law. The university has long been a beacon of light, that has produced some of the best children of our people, that is a space for education of all types in its classrooms and halls of learning, and which has also produced a long line of martyrs, fallen in the cause of our people.
The halls and facilities of the university were targeted by the occupation because it knows that the battle today is not one traditionally fought by the force of arms, but a war that confronts Palestinian brains who are capable of surmounting the brutality of the war machine and its advanced military technology with innovation and creativity. The “clash of brains” in the field has proven to the occupier that the Palestinian people prevail in their persistence and ability to outwit and challenge the aggression.
We in the Progressive Student Action Front condemn this crime against our university and our rights, and say that we stand alongside our people in this heroic battle to confront the occupation. If the occupier believes that by targeting these buildings it can break our determination, it will be proven to be delusional. These buildings are stones stacked together, but the University, since its founding, is an edifice built in the heart of every student who has studied and graduated there, and every person touched by its position in our society.
The Islamic University will return, beautiful and strong, and students will return to their classes, wherever they are held. The University will open and thousands of new students are rushing to join the faculties. The occupation’s aggression will not stop our people from moving forward to achieve our objective of liberation.
Glory to the fallen martyrs, and speedy recovery to the brave wounded, and victory for our homeland Palestine
Progressive Student Action Front
Islamic University of Gaza
August 6, 2014
 