
Comrade Ahmad Hussein (Abu Maher) al-Yamani is a historical leader of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the Palestinian revolution and the Palestinian people. Renowned for his humbleness, clarity, dedication, political vision and love for his people, Abu Maher al-Yamani’s path of resistance, steadfastness and commitment to liberation remains a beacon today.
In memory of his life and in salute to his struggle on the third anniversary of his passing, we present the following historical document: Abu Maher al-Yamani’s September 1974 speech announcing the PFLP’s withdrawal from the Executive Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization:

The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine declares its decision to withdraw from the Executive Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization.
We do so as to not shoulder the responsibility for the historical deviation taken by the leadership of the PLO, and to continue our struggle among the masses in order to correct this deviation, to express the will of the masses, and to impose the correct revolutionary political line on the leadership that has become subservient to the reactionary and capitulationist regimes.
The PFLP has only taken this step after serious attempts to strengthen national unity at this stage on clear national basis. After serious and responsible efforts to put the PLO leadership in the revolutionary course, and after serious attempts to warn the PLO leadership about the impact of continuing on the path of subservience; after all of this, the PFLP cannot remain within the Executive Committee bearing responsibility for the dangerous, gradual deviation taking place. The conspicuous contacts with the Americans, which we are capable of confirming lately, and the misleading policy practiced on our masses aim to put them in a position where day after day they will sink in the swamp of the imperialist settlement that is being planned by U.S. imperialism, Arab reaction, and the capitulationists. This policy aims at establishing the settlement in a discreet and gradual way, step by step: so our masses will not realize the extent of the deviation that the Arab and Palestinian events have been heading toward for some time now.
It interests the PFLP to assure our Palestinian masses, Arab masses, and the anti-(imperialist-Zionist-Reactionary) forces that it only took this step after long and responsible thought. We have a deep and strong conviction that the settlement being prepared now can not be but a liquidationist imperialist one that will lead to the expansion of U.S. imperialism’s influence in the area and concede the existence of “Israel” with future guarantees of its security and stability. We are convinced also, that for some time now, there have been serious efforts to drag the PLO to become a party in this liquidationist imperialist settlement, so as to guarantee the new conditions that will arise for the longest possible time. This also aims to give a cover to the capitulationist stands of some of the Arab regimes. It is apparent for us that the PLO leadership agrees to be part of this settlement, and even struggles so as not to miss out on such a role.
In light of these facts, the PFLP has only one road – that is to disassociate its political line in a firm and clear way from the capitulationist line followed by the PLO leadership. The PFLP will struggle among the masses for its political line, will expose every step of deviation, and will expose every tactical deception that is taken by the capitulationist forces, which try to present the retreats as victories ; in particular, participation in the Geneva conference.
Abu Maher al-Yamani at the press conference announcing PFLP withdrawal, September 1974
The PFLP has no choice but to firmly face these deviations so that our masses and the revolutionary forces will be capable to expose all these deceptions in order that a historical force will emerge from our masses. This will guarantee the continuation of the revolution until the liberation of Haifa, Jerusalem, Nazareth, Safad, Gaza, Nablus and every inch of our Palestinian land, until the racist, zionist, fascist entity is destroyed, and until the reactionary regimes tied with imperialism such as Jordan and others are also destroyed, and until the Arab land is liberated from all imperialist influence and exploitation; even if this requires that our nation has to struggle for tens of years and sacrifice for it millions of martyrs.
The PFLP adopts this position out of its belief and conviction that the critical stage facing the revolution imposes on us to underline clearly and to explain to our masses frankly and honestly the responsibility that falls on everyone and on our masses as a whole towards the revolution, martyrs, cause, homeland and future of the struggle. As such, it is most important to put forward the reasons for withdrawing from the PLO Executive Committee so that matters will be very clear, and so that we carry out our duty in setting up a revolutionary path for the mass movement:
First: After the October war new Arab and international conditions developed to put forward what is known as a political settlement for the Arab-Israeli conflict. The U.S. was the most anxious for this settlement relying on approval of Saudi-Egyptian reaction in the first place. It was clear what this settlement could produce of results, for in return to the pressure put by the U.S. on Israel, the price was an expansion of U.S. influence and a guarantee for its interest in our land. For every part of Arab land that Israel withdraws from, it is paid a price that strengthens its economy, military power, security and is a step towards the conceding of its existence in the area.
It was the duty of the Palestinian revolution to present to the Palestinian masses a precise analysis of this situation, to specify its results, call for its exposition, and to fight it before everybody so that our revolution will be a beacon before the struggle of millions of Arabs instead of being a cover to the capitulation of some of their leaders.
The PFLP has demanded, since the end of the October war – when the imperialist liquidationist conspiracy became clear – that the Palestinian revolution declares its analysis of the new political situation, its opposition to the lequidationist settlement, and that it will not allow the PLO to be used as an umbrella that covers the positions of some Arab regimes. The Palestinian revolution was supposed to expose the truth of the Geneva Conference, and the truth about the results that it will lead to: also to put itself outside the liquidationist settlement, to continue the mobilization of the masses to further the struggle for tens of years regardless of the sacrifices. The real value of the Palestinian revolution is to set the example through which the Arab masses will be capable to resolve their contradictions with their enemies by the use of arms and through a popular war of liberation instead of capitulation within a balance of power that makes the price of land returned more expensive than the land itself.
The PFLP has tried its best to make this position one that will strenghten the revolution and our national unity on the basis of a clear and categorical rejection to the Geneva conference and the liquidationist conspiracy, and on the basis of continuation of the revolutionary line. But the leadership of the PLO kept avoiding the adoption of a clear position on the grounds that it has not received an official invitation to the Geneva Conference, in spite of the signs that showed the wish of many international and Arab forces to contain the PLO and abort its revolutionary contents by indulging it within the capitulationist plans.
The PLO held its “no position” with Israel, Jordan, Arab reaction, position, and as such lost its activism and effectiveness in the Palestinian, Arab and international circles.
Second: On the eve of the twelveth Palestine National Council, which was held last June in Cairo, the PLO leadership talked of the importance of national unity. particularly at this stage. It also expressed its readiness to move its position from the “No Position” stand to the rejection position (temporarily) regarding attendance of the Geneva Conference. At that time it used a deceptive “tactic” which aimed at showing the rejection forces that it knows the truth of this liquidationist settlement, but that it wanted to abort it through cunning tactics instead of direct confrontation. At that point, and from a position of responsibility not to lose any chance for national unity, the PFLP decided to explore this chance and test its results. As such was our approval of the Ten Points Program, although it represented a compromising weak form of national unity. Even then we made clear our own comprehension of this program, ie. that it rejects the Geneva conference and places the PLO outside the liquidationist settlement.
After the twelfth Palestine National Council, it became clear what the capitulationist leadership meant by its approval of the Ten Points Program. It considered it as a legitimate permit to follow the road of deviation and capitulation. It began to give its own interpretation of the Ten Points Program in contradiction to the character of PLO and the resolutions of all the sessions of the national council, including the eleventh and the twelfth.
The trick became clear, and what more became clear was that the tactic talked about by the capitulationist forces was aimed to mislead the comrades in arms and the masses, not the enemy.
We continued to struggle within the PLO and its Executive Committee so as to confirm the sound understanding of the national charter and the resolutions of the National Council. But, day after day, we began to discover that the PLO leadership was deep in the settlement hoping to push it, one part at a time, and to follow the process of deviation gradually in order to put the masses before a fait-accompli.
Third: the PLO leadership began presenting its possible attendance of the Geneva conference (the conspiracy) as a great victory over Jordan and Israel. It also spoke about the possibility of coordinating with the hireling regime in Jordan if certain conditions existed. This is in contradiction to the resolutions of the National Council which call for bringing down the regime and the establishment of a national democratic one in its place. In one of the Executive Committee meetings before the declaration of the Egyptian-Jordanian communique, the decision to coordinate with the hireling regime in Jordan was taken if the latter recognized the PLO as the only legitimate representative of the Palestinian People and recognized the Cairo agreement of 1970. It is known that this agreement did not stop the hireling regime from striking the resistance movement and ending its open presence there; as if the Palestinian revolution did not have that long history of experiences with the regime, and as if there were no national council resolutions that demand the encirclement of and the struggle against the regime so as to bring it down.
Fourth: Some time after the twelfth national council, and after the PLO leadership abandoned the revolutionary line the Egyptian-Jordanian communique was issued; this was a hard blow to this leadership and its political line.
The declaration of this communique was an occasion for the PLO leadership to take a stand regarding its policy since the October 1973 war, and since the twelfth national council in particular. As such, three organizations, members of the Executive Committee, presented a joint memorandum demanding revision and criticism by the PLO leadership so as to deduce the lessons from the previous experiences and specify its relations on the basis of the position of the regimes on the liquidationist imperialist settlement, depending primarily on the masses of the Arab nation instead of the agents of the U.S. in the area. The PLO Leadership neglected and rejected the memorandum and continued in its previous policy. It started to consider its battle not as one against the liquidationist imperialist settlement so as to continue the Palestinian and Arab fight, but a battle for the size of its share in the settlement vis-a-vis the hireling regime in Jordan.
Fifth: The PLO leadership is attempting now to make our masses forget its basic national battle concerning the liquidationist imperialist settlement and the necessity to abort it. It tries hard to divert the attention of the masses from the main battle to that of the PLO leadership with the hireling regime about each’s share in the settlement. It wants the masses to be sympathatic towards it and to rally around it if the share of the hireling regime in Jordan grew at its expense. It also wants the masses to cheer it if its share becomes bigger on the account of the hireling regime in Jordan, all of this within the realm of the liquidationist imperialist settlement.
The PLO leadership makes its efforts to present the battle as one between Israel and Jordan on one side and itself on the other. As such it has the right to establish all kinds of alliances and gain the support of the masses. We categorically declare that this is a dangerous distortion of the battle and the map of contradictions. The battle is still going on with Israel, Jordan, Arab reaction, imperialism and capitulationist forces on one side and the masses of the Palestinian and Arab revolution on another. There is no power capable to hide this fact from the masses.
The Palestinian masses do not want the PLO leadership to win its battle against the Jordanian reactionary regime within the realm of the settlement so as to compete with the hireling King on who is to negotiate with the Israeli enemy. The Palestinian masses want the PLO leadership to win its battle against all the forces working to impose the liquidationist imperialist settlement, so as to continue its popular revolution against Israel, the hireling regime in Jordan, imperialism and all the forces of reaction and capitulation.
Sixth: The PLO leadership ignored the joint memorandum of the three organizations, and after enough time had passed, it participated in the tripartite conference in Cairo. This was presented as a victory for the PLO by the media supporting the settlement, although the communique issued does not object to disengagement on the Jordanian Front, but states the necessity for coordination with other Arab countries (including Jordan).
The objection of hireling Hussein and his suspension of Jordan’s political activities until the coming Arab summit conference is an expected and understandable matter within the competition for the share each party is trying to get as a result of this settlement which is led by the U.S., which wants “permanent” stability in the area that guarantees the existence of Israel and protects its security and stability.
Our masses will not allow such deceptions to pass, our masses are not ready to contain its battle within the circles designated by the PLO leadership, so as to give their sympathy when its share is small and cheer when this share becomes bigger.
Seventh: Things did not stop at this level. At the time that the PLO leadership denied the existence of any secret contacts with the U.S. (enemy of peoples) we are sure that these contacts took place in a secret manner. We have put this information before the Central Council in its last meeting and we put it now before the masses.
We consider these as secret contacts with the imperialist enemies, taking place without the concent of the revolution’s masses, its cadres and bases. If some leaders have come to see in this a natural thing, we leave it to the masses to have their say on this subject.
The PFLP, after taking knowledge of this information, would be doing wrong to the masses if it does not put it before them so that they will judge accordingly. The days when leadership looked at our masses as a flock of sheep are gone.
Eighth: These are the most important reasons for withdrawing from the Executive Committee of the PLO, but not all of them. We do not wish at this time to talk about the organizational and administrative situation within the PLO. We do not also want to talk about the effects such issues have had on several matters such as the building of shelters and fortifying the camps in Lebanon.
In light of all of this how can we continue to bear responsibility within the Executive Committee?
The suspension of our membership in the Executive Committee is a must.
In light of this important step, we would like to emphasize the following points:
1. We will practice our right to make clear our position to the masses in detail and by every way and means. We call on all cadres and bases convinced of this analysis and position to carry out their duty in mobilizing and explaining to the masses so that they bear their responsibilities.
2. We believe in the correctness of our position and we will defend it by all determination and power. We feel a heavy responsibility towards the future of our revolution and our struggle, which puts on us the task of explaining it on the largest possible level, Palestinian, Arab and international.
3. We truly believe that we are serving the true Palestinian national unity. The road for national unity has become one,· that is the road of the masses and the bases’ struggle to impose the right political line.
4. We will not allow the imperialist, Zionist, reactionary enemies to benefit from this situation in any way. All the rifles will be in one line against any Zionist imperialist reactionary aggression against the Palestinian revolution or any organization within it.
5. We aim by this position to mobilize the Palestinian masses and their revolutionary forces to have their say and impose their will that has been expressed throught history on different occasions. Through this we will establish the unity of our revolution on a safe national basis that will fight liquidationist settlements and will play an effective role in mobilizing all of our Arab masses to win its final battle against imperialism, Zionism and reaction.
6. Though we withdraw from the Executive Committee, we will remain in the Palestine National Council, in the popular unions and organizations and in the popular committees in the camps. We will continue to struggle among our masses with a deep sense of responsibility to correct the deviations in the revolution’s path and to protect the Palestinian rock from being driven in the current of the imperialist settlement.
7. We will remain ready to participate seriously in building a true national unity based on a clear and frank rejection of the Geneva conspiracy, the proposed political settlement at this time and the settlements and resolutions that concede the existence of our Zionist enemy.
8. We will continue to adopt armed struggle and all other forms of struggle connected with it until we destroy the Zionist entity and the hireling regime in Jordan, and the establishment of the democratic society in Palestine as part of a united Arab democratic society.
September 1974
 