
Confirmed the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the massacre of Sabra and Shatila constitute one of the lessons the amount of significance to those who are still betting on the U.S. guarantees, asserting that the Oslo agreement the form of a national disaster.
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine said that the massacre of Sabra and Shatila must be learned from by those who continue to rely on U.S. guarantees, saying the Oslo agreement is another national disaster.
During an event in al-Buss camp near Tyre, Lebanon, to mark the thirty-first anniversary of the Sabra and Shatila massacre and the twentieth anniversary of the Oslo accords and to stand against US threats against Syria, the Front said that it will continue its campaign to bring down the Oslo agreement.
Comrade Ahmed Mourad, member of the Central Committee of the Front in Lebanon, spoke about the Zionist invasion of Lebanon in 1982, the siege of Beirut and the steadfastness of the Palestinian resistance and the Lebanese national movement, and the months of negotiation and agreement on the exit of the Palestinian revolution under the so-called U.S. guarantees for the protection of Palestinian refugees in Lebanon.
What happened after that is well-known, said Mourad, where enemy forces stormed Beirut, surrounded the camps, and facilitated the entry of groups of killers to commit ugly, terrible massacres killing thousands of people. These brutal crimes were the fruit of “American guarantees,” and this should be a lesson to those who still rely on those guarantees, said Mourad.
He called for the Palestinian leadership to review the results of 20 years of the Oslo agreement which provide cover for brutal Zionist practices, settlement, killing, the confiscation of land, saying that the Front will continue to struggle to topple Oslo. He also called for an immediate halt to the negotiations and an alternative national strategy of adherence to Palestinian rights, and to the right of Palestinian people to exercise all forms of resistance, including armed struggle.
 