
Comrade Ahmad Sa’adat, the imprisoned General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, issued his congratulations to our people and his comrades on three occasions: the twenty-fifth anniversary of the launch of the Intifada of 1987 and the 45th anniversary of the founding of the Popular Front, as well as the recent victory in denying the Israeli enemy its objectives in its recent aggression on Gaza, thanks to the steadfastness and courage of the resistance and our people as a whole.
In a letter, Sa’adat called for events marking these anniversaries to be opportunities to confront the occupation and address our political demands: Jerusalem, the right of return, settlements, prisoners and all other demands of the Palestinian people. Sa’adat called for “national reconciliation and unity on the basis of a political program rooted in the resistance,” saluting the masses of the Palestinian people, the martyrs and their families, the prisoners and the wounded, saying that the victory in Gaza was achieved by the steadfastness and resilience of the resistance in confronting the occupier’s aggression.
Sa’adat said that “This era of the people of our nation is part of the current era in the Arab world. It is clear that the people are the only source of legitimacy and must lead us to build a positive environment for national unity, a state of unity that does exist on the field of battle.” Our people must lead the struggle for national unity and reconciliation, which can direct our cause on the road toward achieving our goals – independence, self determination, liberation and return, said Sa’adat.
Sa’adat emphasized the connection between the Palestinian, Arab and international struggle, fundamental to the program of the front, a revolutionary vision that necessitates our existence as a leftist and progressive party, adding that the Palestinian national movement is part of the national liberation movement and the Arab popular movement that has been stirred by the movements of youth and continues to struggle, confront and work for revolution despite attempts by America and oil princes to contain the movement or reproduce old regimes with new faces. Sa’adat said that more than ever it is necessary to mobilize leftist and broad progressive forces in the Arab world to build joint revolutionary action on the road to building a broader leftist front at the Palestinian and Arab level.
He called for the protection of the revolutions, pushing them forward, and demanding the achievement of immediate objectives of freedom, democracy and social justice, breaking the shackles of dependency and subservience to capitalism, globalization and imperialism. He noted that the current transitional phase of the Arab scene opens doors to all possibilities and must impel the forces of democratic change to mobilize, strengthen their presence and influence as it has great consequences for the future of our Arab nation and its democratic development.
Sa’adat emphasized the centrality of the right of return to the liberation of Palestine, particularly crucial at a time when ending the occuupation of 1967 is being raised as a “final solution” or the highest achievement of Palestinian goals. He emphasized that achievement of self-determination, liberation and return is not subject to any “negotiating team” for “final status issues.” The right of return, said Sa’adat, is the core of our national cause, the bridge between our current situation and our rights to our entire homeland. Because there are some Palestinian forces that are not adhering to this vision, it is essential that our national program emphasize the centrality of the right of return, placing this as a minimum point of agreement for national unity. “We need a program based on the resistance option in our struggle with the occupation and that rejects the path of relying on absurd negotiations, particularly in light of the current balance of power. We must demand that the United Nations convene international conferences and compel ‘Israel’ to implement these decisions and enable our people to exercise their inalienable rights to national independence, self determination and return.”
Sa’adat pointed out that national reconciliation is an urgent necessity and it is incumbent upon Fateh and Hamas to possess the political will to achieve it in practice, expressing hope in the climate of unity that was formed during the brave resistance of the Gaza Strip where national and Islamic forces united in the trenches against the occupation.
Sa’adat called for street pressure for national unity, saying that the PLO can again be the national framework for our people in a democratic climate of elections, including all political forces. The national program must be consolidated around resistance, the right of return, and Palstinian national rights.
Sa’adat praised the prisoners’ movement, saying that the initiative of our prisoner comrades in September 2011 lit the spark that grew into the great prisoner hunger strike and melted the ice of the exchange, despite the problematic circumstances of the exchange agreement. Sa’adat also noted that this opened the path to many prisoners’ initiatives to protest the policy of administrative detention, including the hunger strikes initiated by the leader and fighter Khader Adnan and the subsequent initiatives of brothers and sisters along that path, saying that all of this built the prisoners’ movement and led to the mass April hunger strike which was a success, achieving its objectives to end the policy of isolation, bans on Gaza prisoners’ family visits and more, despite the Prison Service’s repeated violations of the agreement. The prisoners’ movement inspired the Palestinian and Arab streets to action for the prisoners and the national cause in general, as well as actions internationally, parliamentary attention, and the concern of human rights institutions, and generated international pressure on the occupation to respond to the prisoners’ demands. The prisoners’ movement advanced its struggle and won goals that can be built upon to further enhance the prisoners’ gains, as well as to build on the international solidarity established for the Palestinian cause.
Sa’adat concluded his greetings by saluting his comrades in the Front, expressing his high confidence in them and their ability and energy to build and improve the Front at all levels as part of the national struggle on the road to achieving our goals of self determination, liberation and return.
 