
Comrade Omar Shehadeh, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and editor of Al-Hadaf, said that it is imperative to improve the organizing of the movement to defend the right of return and demand the rights of Palestinian refugees and all of our people.
The Palestinian right of return is guaranteed politically, legally and morally, said Shehadeh and no leader, party, organization, or state may dispose of it. Any infringement of the right of return is entirely invalid, and those who do not have the ability to ensure its implementation have no right to undermine it and should step down and aside as Palestinian refugees and the Palestinian and Arab people continue the resistance by all means in order to achieve their rights.
The refugees’ return is a personal, individual and national and collective right, an essential right for the full recognition of Palestinians’ human and national rights. It may not be bartered or traded, nor will it expire, said Shehadeh. This right is an integral part of the right of self-determination of the Palestinian people, he said, any any agreements, including the so-called “Oslo Accords,” “Gaza-Jericho” and any other state projects, including the so-called draft two-state solution cannot and will not blur or undermine the right of return as the core of the Palestinian cause and a historical and urgent truth and necessaity.
The expulsion of Palestinians and denial of the right of return are at the core of the aggressive, bloody, reactionary racist ideology of Zionism and its existence in Palestine, and its role in the strategy of imperialism in the region.
Shehadeh called for continued emphasis on the nature of the settler colonial ideology of Zionism as a form of racism and its ongoing projects designed to undermine the right of return and demand the recgnition of the so-called “Jewish State” in a strategic contrast to the legitimate Palestinian indigenous presence in historic Palestine.
Despitethe passage of 66 years, the occupation state built upon dispossessed Palestinian land and the destruction of Palestine, the return of the refugees represents a nightmare to the leaders of the occupation and the Zionist movement, undermining their legitimacy and reminding them that their crimes will not go into history unpunished, said Shehadeh.
The movement to defend the right of return is critical in the face of fragmentation and liquidation, particularly in the wake of the signing of the Oslo agreement. Everywhere Palestinian refugees are – in the homeland, in the refugee camps in the Arab countries and everywhere in exile and diaspora – they are aware of the danger and imminent threat to the right of return. Shehadeh said that the right of return movement, at the core of the Palestinian movement is a powerful mechanism to restore the politics of the Palestine Liberation Organization after their distortion and undermining by the Palestinian Authority leadership, which has become a burden on the national struggle and the right of return. On the other hand, he said, the movement also safeguards the human, social and civil rights of Palestinian refugees, so often violated and denied in countries of asylum, as well as the inalienable political rights of our people to return to their homes, lands and property from which they were displaced.
Shehadeh said that the right of return is the core of the Palestinian cause, and that the right of return movement and the movement of Palestinian refugees can defend refugees’ right and the entire Palestinian people, lifting it out of the quagmire of the current situation, seeking return, self-determination and liberation. The right of return is critical not only to the future of the Palestinian people but also to save millions of Jews who are being used as fuel for the Zionist movement and global imperialism’s interests and objectives in the region, in a democratic state between the river and the sea with equal rights for all.
 