
Comrade Omar Shehadeh, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and editor of Al-Hadaf magazine, said that the Front is launching a mass public campaign to bring down the Oslo agreement, to restore legitimacy to the Palestinian people as the source of resolution and all legitimacy.
Shehadeh said about the Palestinian Authority police attack on demonstrators against negotiations today, June 28, in Ramallah was shameful and reflects our political state, and the level of betrayal. “They bow their heads down in front of settlers and Israeli soldiers, but the PA thugs raised their weapons and batons on the heads of young Palestinian men and women,” said Shehadeh.
He said that the events today are the beginning of a popular movement in the West Bank, Gaza, the occupied lands of ’48, the camps and the Diaspora, to restore national unity on the basis of a national alternative strategy that rejects Oslo and its representatives.
Shehadeh said, “Today, members of the Popular Front, part of the Palestinian people, trade unions, members of most of the national and Islamic forces, went out to express their views in a peaceful and democratic manner in the march toward the presidential complex to convey a message to those who stole the Palestinian decision from our national institutions, national consensus and the Central Council, in order to enter into negotiations.” He noted that these negotiations ignored the conditions of the PLO Central Council, a freeze of settlement construction, negotiations based on UN resolutions and international law and the freedom of all prisoners.
“Unfortunately one individual took these decisions away from the Palestinian people and completely undermined Palestinian legitimacy, and is now in conflict with all of the Palestinian people and the political forces opposed to the resumption of negotiations,” said Shehadeh.
Comrade Dr. Rabah Muhanna, member of the Political Bureau of the PFLP, encouraged all members and supporters of the Front, inside and outside Palestine, and the masses of the Palestinian people to come together to build a strong campaign of pressure to prevent the Palestinian leadership from concessions of Palestinian rights and to halt the resumption of negotiations under US auspices.
He noted that the assault on the demonstration today was an example of repression by the PA security apparatus, which is engaged in daily security coordination with the occupation, and will only enhance the Front’s determination to continue with these events and actions in order to defend Palestinian rights.
 