
Comrade Zahir al-Shishtary, PFLP leader, was released from Zionist occupation prisons on September 15 after nearly a year spent in Megiddo prison.
He carried statements from the prisoners to the Palestinian leadership and Palestinian factions, calling for Palestinian national unity, an end to division, and demanding to “end the futile negotiations and security cooperation with the occupier.”
In an interview with Al-Jazeera, Shishtary said that “the prisoners’ situation today is one of turmoil and great concern, especially with regard to the growing arrest campaign against the Palestinian people and their leaders, after the operation in al-Khalil early last June and the Zionist aggression in the Gaza Strip.” He denounced the “continuing reliance of the Palestinian officials on pushing the PLO into so-called peace negotiations, based on security coordination and serving the goals of the occupation. This leads only to undermining the Palestinian struggle against the occupation.”
Shishtary called on all Palestinians, especially Fateh and Hamas, to end division and work seriously to build national unity, saying that continuing rivalry and unsupported allegations “undermine the precious victory of the resistance.” Unity and steadfastness, he said, is the only mechanism to confront the ongoing Israeli attacks and arrests.
Shishtary noted that the occupation is attempting to use the division to suppress the prisoners’ movement inside occupation prisons, saying that prison authorities have been imposing special “double punishment” on prisoners, especially from Hamas, Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front, attacking the achievements gained by the prisoners through struggle – including banning visits, preventing canteen access, forbidding recreation, and removing electronic devices and most TV channels. The prison administration, Shishtary said, is attempting to create crisis and division within the prisons, by allowing some prisoners visits and canteen access while denying it to others, noting that prisoners have repeatedly rejected the repressive actions of the occupier. He noted that some rights have been restored, especially in the area of visits, due to ongoing strikes and confrontations by prisoners.
Shishtary added that the prisoners hold great hope in the achievements of the resistance, especially in relation to the capture of Israeli soldiers. In addition, he noted the ongoing arrest campaign against leaders and cadres of the Front as well as the expulsion order directed against Comrade Khalida Jarrar, as a response to the Front’s rejection of the attempts of the occupation, Palestinian Authority officialdom, and reactionary Arab regimes to reimpose futile negotiations and the so-called “peace process.”
Shishtary has spent over 4 years in occupation prisons, through 13 arrests by occupation forces.
 