
The grassroots campaign for the freedom of Palestinian leader Ahmad Sa’adat, General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, and his comrades, organized a solidarity sit-in marking the eighth anniversary of their abduction in front of the International Committee of the Red Cross office in El-Bireh, Palestine.
Dozens of participants demanded action to secure their release and the release of all Palestinian prisoners, noting the Palestinian Authority’s complicity in and responsibility for the detention of Sa’adat, his comrades, and Fouad Shubaki, abducted from the PA’s Jericho prison in 2006 in an occuption military attack.
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine distributed a statement at the event saying that “the crime of kidnapping Sa’adat and his comrades, who were charged with the assassination of racist Zionist Rehavam Ze’evi, in response to the assassination of Comrade Martyr Abu Ali Mustafa, has repercussions beyond the event itself. The Zionist enemy, in collusion with the countries providing ‘protective forces’ for Jericho prison (the U.S. and Britain) sought to arrest the resistance and liquidate the very concept of resistance. However, the clear challenge that the General Secretary’s message from prison released to the world made clear that this goal was a failure. This has meant continued steadfastness and the refusal to recognize the legitimacy of occupation military courts while clearly affirming our people’s right to resist occupation, to challenge the limitations of the prison, and continuing to carry out his leadership role as General Secretary of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.”
In addition, the Front noted that the anniversary of the abduction of Sa’adat and his comrades raises once more the urgency of ending the dangerous and destructive security coordination and agreements with the enemy, which led directly to the arrest and abduction. “Security cooperation has the goal of ending the resistance and pursuing freedom fighters for arrest or assassination, as happened to the martyred comrades Moataz Washaha and Saji Darwish and countless martyrs before and after them. This means that the Palestinian Authority bears responsibility for these attacks either through inability to stop them or through making them possible through continuing security coordination with the enemy. It is urgent to immediately end all such agreements and instead respond to calls for a national resistance strategy in all forms to achieve Palestinian national goals and to rebuild Palestinian national unity.”
 
 
 