
The Battle for Freedom will continue until the victory of Bilal Kayed
We greet the Palestinian people with the steadfastness and vigor of the imprisoned leader Bilal Kayed, who is rising up from his isolation cell, where he is beginning the second week of hunger strike, rejecting all pressures, orders and threats. He remains defiant as always in the face of the executioner and refuses to break or relent; he is not intimidated by threats or poor conditions or his deteriorating health, and the Prison Branch stands with him in the battle of freedom without retreat until we achieve freedom. There is no substitute for freedom!
We salute the struggling comrades in Megiddo and Gilboa prison on hunger strike, joining the battle in response to Comrade Kayed’s call.
We are on the road to escalate the continuing struggle against the Zionist jailer, in response to the call of Bilal Kayed, and to confront this dangerous Zionist decision which seeks to create a systematic policy of oppression. The PFLP Prison Branch will persist in its escalating protest steps despite the threats of sanctions issued by the prison administration in the past hours against our comrades if they continue to struggle. Our comrades come out calling with strong voices that the battle continues, they will not succumb to threats, and that the battle of Bilal Kayed is our battle and the battle of all of the prisoners and of all Palestinians. They are determined to continue the battle of freedom.
We in the PFLP Prison Branch issue this Statement #2, as we are in the middle of a battle and are facing pressures and threats. In this context we emphasize the following:
1) The battle continues and our steps will escalate according to the announced program of eventds and actions, and for that we announce a two-day hunger strike from today as a message and a challenge to the prison administration upon its threats to us, and as a prelude to other actions including a collective open hunger strike in early July if the occupation does not respond to our demand, the unconditional release of Comrade Bilal Kayed.
2) The battle of freedom for Bilal Kayed is inseparable from the struggle to end the crime of administrative detention, and our victory in this battle will mean achieving an important breakthrough and a victory over the jailer on the subject of administrative detention.
3) We urge the mobilization of all national efforts in order to support the leader Bilal Kayed in the struggle, through mass work and struggle at all levels. It is time for a victory for the suffering prisoners and the establishment of a new phase in effective strugle to support the prisoners’ issue.
4) It is time to confront the nature of our relationship with the International Committee of the Red Cross. It is time for us to raise the red card that the ICRC is not living up to its responsibilities, and rather than alleviate our suffering and that of our families, the ICRC is increasing the burden upon them with policies and procedures, including the cuts to family visits, which represent a clear decline of its role in accordance and even collusion with the systematic policy of the occupation.
5) We send our greetings to the people of the world who are taking to the streets to protest against the crime against Comrade Kayed, and urge the continuation of these activities, including a popular besieging of Zionist embassies and international institutions complicit with the crimes of the occupation.
We assure the Palestinian people that our morale is very high, touching the mountains, and we plan with all of our strength to continue this struggle until victory for the imprisoned hero, Bilal Kayed.
PFLP Prison Branch
June 21, 2016
 