
The following statement was released following misleading media reports issued today in Palestinian media, regarding lawyer visits and the case of Bilal Kayed:
Imprisoned struggler, Comrade Bilal Kayed, is nearly entering his twenty-seventh day of open hunger strike despite deteriorating health and is expected to be transferred at any moment from isolation in Ashkelon prison to hospital, as the prisoners of the Front continue to struggle along their program of resistance, in support of the struggle of Comrade Kayed and with the united interests of the prisoners’ movement and various methods and procedures of escalation as previously announced. In this context, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine branch in Israeli jails emphasizes the following:
1) Comrade Bilal Kayed is continuing his open hunger strike. The Front prisoners are fully engaged in the battle to support him and demand the unconditional release of Comrade Kayed. Based on this, the prisoners of the Front emphasize that in the next two days (July 11 and 12), which were already declared as days of hunger strike and returning meals within all prisons, the Front prisoners will strike and will also refuse to answer to the prison administration during roll call, and will instead shout the name of Comrade Bilal Kayed as a challenge to the prison administration.
2) The PFLP Prison Branch confirms that the prison administration, as part of its attempts to stop the strike and suppress the escalating protest steps of the prisoners, has made several proposals, part of which have been rejected and other parts which are under discussion. The prisoners adhere firmly to the position that Comrade Kayed must be released without limitation or condition, or else the hunger strike will continue, and the prisoners will continue their struggle until the occupation concedes to their demands.
3) We emphasize again that the authoritative sources in Palestine for information about developments in the case of Bilal Kayed is his lawyer from Addameer Foundation, or the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine organization in the occupation prisons, or Front leaders authorized to issue positions on this case, especially because any incorrect or false information hurts and weakens the struggle.
4) We call on the media to be accurate in what they publish about the case of the imprisoned hero Bilal Kayed and to seek news from official sources as described above.
5) We call on the union of Arab radio stations and satellite channels to allocate a specific time to review the issue of Bilal Kayed and the struggle against administrative detention.
6) We call on the Palestinian and Arab newspapers to allocate part of their pages to the issue of administrative detention and the case of Comrade Kayed
Victory and freedom for Comrade Kayed and all prisoners!
The leadership of the PFLP organization in Israeli jails
June 10, 2016
 