
Today we face the escalation of the repression by the Israeli prison administration against the prisoners of the Popular Front rising up in various prisons to support the heroic prisoner Bilal Kayed, on his 13th day of hunger strike in solitary confinement, as his health condition deteriorates daily.
The Israeli prison administration is carrying out a systematic and sustained campaign against the striking prisoners in various prisons, notably in Megiddo, where dozens were transferred to other prisons in an attempt to stop the protest, amid repressive acts to crush their protest. The attack has continued on the Front’s prisoners in Eshel prison, where the repression units have invaded the sections of the PFLP prisoners, threatening further sanctions and the transfer of prisoners.
Despite these attacks, the Front’s prisoners are preparing for the next steps of struggle, development and escalation. Our steadfastness and determination will not be defeated by the intelligence agencies, the prison administration, sanctions or repressive special units. They will not impair our revolutionary resolve or stop our steps of struggle. Instead, the prisoners adhere firmly to their demands and support of the struggling Palestinian hero and fighter, Bilal Kayed, and we answer unequivocally any “carrot and stick” methods of the occupation with more struggle.
Our battle is ongoing and such threats will only increase our determination to continue the struggle.
The battle that we are waging is for victory, for freedom of Bilal Kayed, to confront the policies of administrative detention, solitary confinement, and medical neglect, as primary targets for our continued protest steps. In this context, we in the leadership of the prison branch of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine emphasize the following:
1. In the framework of the escalation of the battle, the PFLP declares that its prisoners in all prisons will engage in a hunger strike from Monday to Wednesday.
2. In light of the escalation against them, the PFLP prisoners in Megiddo prison are threatening to stop drinking water.
3. The battle waged by the prisoners of the Front is collective. Therefore, isolating or transferring the leadership to this or that prison will not inhibit or stop the progress of this struggle. Instead it reinforces our enthusiasm to continue.
4. All thanks and appreciation to those who organize and participate in support actions for us inside Palestine and in the diaspora and in Western cities, especially the masses in Asira who are rising up for victory for their son Bilal, and all of those in the West Bank, as well as those in the events in Gaza, Lebanon, and Jordan, and in the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Toulouse, Paris, Turin, Athens and New York, and elsewhere.
5. We send our proud salutes and greetings to the mother of Bilal Kayed, her steadfastness and strength and presence in the various actions in the West Bank, in support of the prisoners and the ongoing struggle.
The coming days are rich with developments, and all of the Zionist escalation and mobilization of repressive units for more invasions, transfers and attacks will meet with the escalation of our protest until the release of the captive hero Bilal Kayed. We salute our great Palestinian masses and hope for the continuation of the support for our struggle. Every demonstration, march and action against the crimes of the occupation strengthens us and increases our will to fight this battle.
Victory to our heroes, with determination and steadfastness
June 27, 2016
PFLP branch in Israeli prisons
 