
The struggling prisoners of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, engaged in the “battle of freedom” against the prisons and the intelligence agencies of the occupation on the road to a victory for the heroic prisoner Bilal Kayed. He continues his hunger strike for the tenth day in a row, joined by dozens of prisoners of the Front, in response to the call of the Front’s prison branch since the first day that Comrade Kayed was ordered to administrative detention and isolation. The Front declared a state of maximum alert and decided to fight the battle for freedom and organize a series of protests and actions, with a program of struggle which is continuing today.
In order to attempt to stop the protest, the enemy has been using means of repression, raiding prisoners’ sections, depriving prisoners of the Front of family visits until further notice, and confiscating electrical appliances. Having seen the failure of these repressive measures against the steadfastness and determination of our comrades. and in the context of increasing pressure on the prisoners, the occupation has launched a campaign of transfers against dozens of prisoners on hunger strike, including some of the leaders of the Front, ordering some of them into isolation. This happened yesterday, to transfer dozens of striking prisoners from Megiddo prison and distribute them to other prisons, and to isolate the leaders Wael Jaghoub and Salah Ali and others, in an attempt to repress their growing protest steps and to neutralize the role of leaders and isolate them from the rest of the prisoners.
From inside our cells of confrontation, we convey to the Palestinian masses the greetings of our leader Ahmad Sa’adat and the greetings of our comrade prisoners on hunger strike in Megiddo and Gilboa, faing a sustained and targeted campaign of transfers to other prisons. As we promised, we will struggle in order to win the freedom of the leader Bilal Kayed, operating from our deep conviction that this battle will only end with victory and the establishment of a new stage of the prisoners’ struggle.
We are aware that the price of freedom may be high, but we choose this road unswervingly, whatever sacrifices may be required. There is no room to retreat from the previously announced steps of protest in this ongoing battle of freedom, as part of this ongoing battle, and confrontation of administrative detention and the policy of isolation. We announce that all prisoners of the Front in occupation prisons will engage in a hunger strike for two days on June 24 and 25, 2016. In the coming days, we are developing our methods of confrontation, and in this context we will announce further steps of protest.
We are firmly convinced that the road of confrontation is the path that leads to freedom, that does not surrender to the repressive practices and policies of the occupier. In this context, we call on our people to build wider solidarity with the prisoners of freedom in their battle, through active participation in events and actions, throughout occupied Palestine. And we send our greetings to those in Palestine and around the world who join in our battle and organize events in solidarity with the cause of our comrade Bilal Kayed and to protest against the policy of administrative detention, and highlight the role of the Samidoun Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network in this regard.
Victory is inevitable!
PFLP Prison Branch
June 24 2016
 