
At this time, our heroic comrade Bilal Kayed has announced that he is carrying out an open hunger strike, after the unjust decision of the occupation authority ordering him to administrative detention for six months on the day of his scheduled release, June 13, 2016, after the comrade spent 14 and a half years in captivity, the last year in solitary confinement.
We in the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – Prison Branch announce that his battle is our battle, and the battle of all of the comrades of the PFLP and all of the Palestinian people. From the first day of the decision of the fascist occupation, we have opened the struggle and protest on June 14 and will continue throughout the month of June and early July, culminating in opening the second phase of the battle: an open hunger strike by all of our comrades in prison after July 7, 2016. We assure that we will not retreat from this battle until we have broken the arrogance of the occupation and its security institutions, and broken this decision, which puts all prisoners at high risk and endangers our people’s rights to freedom, dignity and humanity.
On this basis, we declare the following:
We are in this battle to stand as a historical moment in the prisoners’ movement struggles, to solidify a strong foundation to respond to the violations of the prison administration, and raise any issue for Palestinian prisoners to the level of a national task and a national struggle for the prisoners’ movement.
The decision of the occupation and its institutions to order Comrade Bilal to administrative detention after the expiration of his sentence is a serious threat to all Palestinian prisoners that we must confront early before it becomes a systematic policy of the occupation.
We in the Prison Branch organization have declared a state of emergency for all of our comrades in the prisons of the occupation, who are completely ready to struggle in this battle and to receive the direction of the leadership of the Prison Branch. We confirm that ending the administrative detention and immediate freedom for Comrade Bilal has become one of our main missions, and we will not hesitate a moment to carry forward this banner until victory.
We urge all of the Palestinian people inside and outside Palestine, all friends, and the Palestinian media to stand in this honorable battle through protests, activities, media events and actions throughout each day of this struggle.
Victory is inevitable.
The leadership of the prison branch
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine
 