
The prisons of the occupation are in a state of flux, escalation, and rapid developments in the battle for freedom waged by the prisoners of the Popular Front against the fascist prison administration, for victory for their comrade, the leader Bilal Kayed, on hunger strike for a month. The Front organization in all prisons is continuing to escalate their protest, and prepare more serious steps of escalation, intent on their demands, drawing inspiration from the steadfastness of Comrade Kayed, and with the support of the Prisoners’ Movemnt which was expressed in an important statement a few days ago. This is expected to culminate in a program of unified steps of struggle involving the entire prisoners’ movement soon. In this context, we as the leadership of the branch of the organization of the Front in the occupation prisons emphasize the following:
1. Within our program of protest announced over the month of July, the Front prisoners affirm that these two days – 14 and 15 July will be days of returning meals in all prisons.
2. We express our pride and our salutes to the position of the prisoners’ movement in support of the hero Kayed and his comrades. This position is a positive development that will contribute to the expansion of the battle, increase the pressure on the occupation, and restore the united will of the prisoners’ movement.
3. We warn the prison administration of the consequences of the introduction of the Al-Matsada repression units to the prisons, and affirm that the prisoners of the Front will meet their escalation with escalating steps of struggle. First and foremost, we will continue to disrupt roll call and call out and chant the name of the hero, Bilal Kayed, to create more confusion to the prison administration.
4. We call for next Friday to be a day of rage against the occupation, and for the sermons on Friday in all mosques to be dedicated to the issue of prisoners and ways to support Comrade Bilal Kayed in his battle. We also call on churches to take their national role in support of the prisoners and draw attention to their suffering.
5. We call on the student movement and in particular, the Progressive Student Labor Front, to organize student activities to support the prisoner Bilal Kayed, and for a renewed emphasis on the need for universities to have a constant course of study on the issue of prisoners and their suffering.
All of the prison administration’s schemes will fail before the strength and determination of our comrade Bilal Kayed and his comrades, a guiding light and a luminous flame amid the darkness of the prison and the shackles.
We pledge to continue the battle. Victory is inevitable.
The leadership of the PFLP in Israeli jails
July 14, 2016
 