

The imprisoned hero Bilal Kayed is continuing his hunger strike, entering the twenty-fourth day with all strength and courage. He has not been shaken by the pressure of the prison administration, or by the deterioration of his health, from continuing to fight this battle, alongside the comrade prisoners of the Front who are committed to continue to struggle and valiantly confront the fascist repression against them which tries to pressure them by all means to stop their struggle through the imposition of sanctions. It is an illusion that such targeting will break their will and cause them to submit to the terms of the prison administration – yet developments in the last hours indicate that the prison administration will expand its attacks on the prisoners’ movement.
We salute the 44th anniversary of the death of the writer and member of Political Bureau of the Front, Ghassan Kanafani, and his principles and values of liberation and love of the land and people of Palestine, who struggled constantly and gave his life for Palestine. Like our memory of the great struggling writer and person, the martyr who left such a legacy of freedom, revolution, resistance, and love – today Bilal Kayed and his comrades are fighting without retreat or hesitation in their battle for freedom. They are part of the school of Kanafani in the Front, of sacrifice that has given so many martyrs and prisoners, and continues to provide models of struggle that are sources of pride for our people and a challenge to the occupier.
We in the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine prison branch, in light of the recent developments within the prisons, including the recent confirmation of the imposition of administrative detention for six months against Bilal Kayed, emphasize the following:
1. The decision to confirm the administrative detention order against the prisoner Bilal Kayed is another crime of the occupation against the prisoners, and only gives us more determination to continue the struggle until we achieve freedom for the struggler Kayed.
2. We hold the occupation fully responsible for the life of our comrade, the hunger striker Bilal Kayed, whose health has deteriorated in the last hours.
3. In the context of the battle for freedom, the prisoners of the Front are declaring a new series of steps of protest of a tactical character, beginning as of Friday July 8, to keep the pressure on the Israeli prison administration to unconditionally release Comrade Bilal Kayed, including hunger strike on specific days announced below, as well as other meal returns and protests, up to the strategic step of open collective hunger strike which will be pursued if the prison administration does not respond to their demands. The meals of the prisoners of the Front will be returned on the following days in July: 8 and 9; 11 and 12; 14 and 15; 17 and 18; 20, 21, and 22; 24, 25 and 26; 28, 29, and 30.
4. The widening and expansion of the popular campaign of support for Comrade Bilal and the prisoners’ movement is the real support and strength for our struggle, which enables us to continue this battle. We urge you to expand this campaign in villages, refugee camps, and cities, throughout the occupied homeland, from the river to the sea.
5. We call upon the masses of the Palestinian people in exile and diaspora, and the progressive forces of the world, to increase the pace of solidarity activities with the prisoners of various kinds, and to actively partcipate in the week of international solidarity called for by the Samidoun Network, which starts today through July 15.
6. We renew our urgent call to the PLO for action on the internationalization of the prisoners’ issue at an official level in international bodies. This file must not remain closed and dormant in light of the attacks of the prison administration against the prisoners, including, foremost, the policy of administrative detention, and the immediate transfer of the prisoner Bilal Kayed from the completion of his sentence to administrative detention, which threatens to become a systematic policy.
We are confident that with the support of the Palestinian people, we promise to emerge victorious in the battle with our heads held high and our eyes on freedom that has no equivalent, as our hands come together to pound on the walls of the tank strongly for victory for the struggler Bilal Kayed and his comrades.
Freedom for the heroic prisoner Bilal Kayed and all Palestinian prisoners, and victory for our people!
The leadership of the PFLP in Israeli jails
July 8, 2016
 