
The Zionist enemy is continually committing crimes against our people and targeting Palestinians. It did not stop its crimes, despite what we always hear about a “truce” and “calm” here and there – which has proven to be futile in dealing with the occupiers – when faced with Zionist escalation. Because the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades are well aware of the dishonesty of the enemy and its leaders, we have always insisted upon rejecting the “truce” with the occupation state and have continued our revolutionary work quietly and with resolve to direct painful blows to the enemy, whose latest escalation is only a continuation of its ongoing aggression and crimes against the Palestinian people, which have never stopped.
On the morning of Tuesday, October 23, 2012, in an operation following planning and observation, a fighter of the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades monitored his target and location and placed the explosive device where the enemy soldiers approached the border fence, near the Kissufim military site east of Khan Younis. At 7:16 am the device exploded, damaging the occupier’s military equipment and wounding a senior officer from the Givati Brigades, Zeev Shilon, who was transferred by helicopter to Soroka Hospital. His right hand was amputated and he continues to struggle against death, according to the reports of the occupation media. After ensuring the operation was successful and hit its target, the fighters returned safely home and later the Brigades announced this operation, to give hope and joy to our people and our resistance – that the resistance is able to target the enemy and hold him accountable for his crimes, and as a message to the enemy and his soldiers that they are not protected from the blows of the resistance and that shedding Palestinian blood brings blood.
After the operation, the occupation and its leaders, initially stating that the explosion came from a mortar shell and then realizing that it came from an explosive device, rushed to launch their threats against the resistance and those responsible for the heroic operation, believing they will terrorize the resistance and our people. They forget that the Palestinian resistance, including the Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades, are not intimidated by threats and that we insist on continuing our resistance and our revolutionary response to the crimes perpetrated by the leaders and the occupation enemy soldiers against our people, our holy places and our land, and we have pledged to remain faithful to the martyrs, and that their blood will not be shed without a harsh and painful response.
As the enemy continues its crimes, we call to confront the occupiers and their threats, to form a resistance front for a unified national defense of our people, our land, and our holy places, and to continue strikes against the occupiers. Our people and our resistance will inevitably prevail. All greetings and glory to the Abbu Ali Mustafa Brigades, to all of the fighting armed organizations and to the revolution and resistance everywhere in Palestine. We salute those whose pure blood has been shed on the land of Palestine. We salute the prisoners and the wounded. Victory is inevitable.
 