
To the masses of our people,
Comrade leader Bilal Kayed continues for the 40th day of open hunger strike, despite his presence in the hospital and his deteriorating health. He is shackled hand and foot to the bed, refusing all supplements and medical examinations, and his fellow prisoners of the Front are confronted by repressive forces of the prison administration attempting to suppress the continued protest actions through a brutal campaign of repression and collective punishment. These repressive forces are breaking into prison rooms and sections on an ongoing basis, collectively prohibiting family visits, confiscating personal belongings, imposing monetary fines, and engaging in a campaign of transfer and isolation of the prisoners of the Front in difficult conditions, where they are held in cramped rooms lacking basic necessities. These include the leader Nidal Daghlas, engaged in hunger strike and isolated in Ahli Kedar, as well as the threat to isolate a group of prisoners’ leaders in Megiddo prison.
All of these sanctions have not and will not dissuade the prisoners of the Front from continuing their struggle until the unconditional liberation of the heroic comrade Bilal Kayed. We will escalate our protests in the coming days and have informed the prison administration of this position and rejected all offers that do not include the release of our comrade.
In light of the rapid developments and the deterioration of the health of Comrade Bilal Kayed and his continued hospitalization, we in the branch of the PFLP in the prisons of the occupation emphasize the following:
1) The leader of the Popular Front branch in Israeli prisons and his deputy, held in isolation in Hadarim prison, will launch the open hunger strike on Sunday 24 July along with a new group of prisoners in Ofer prison. This step is part of the escalating confrontation of the prison administration and new groups of prisoners will continue to join the collective strike so long as there is no resolution of this case.
2) Continuation of the protest program running parallel to the collective open hunger strike, including the return of meals, resistance and refusal in roll call, and other steps of protest and pressure on the prison administration.
3) Emphasis on continuing and escalating the popular momentum and support in various forms, at all levels and in all locations in support of the struggle for freedom of the heroic prisoner Bilal Kayed and his fellow struggling prisoners.
4) Salutes to the efforts of the comrades in the Progressive Student Labor Front in launching the international call for student solidarity with the prisoners and Comrade Bilal Kayed. Many student organization internationally have responded to this call. We consider this appeal very important and should be circulated to all student unions and organizations to build international pressure on the occupation and build solidarity for the struggle of the prisoners.
5) We call on all progressive forces in the world to participate in the international solidarity activities taking place with Comrade Bilal Kayed and the Palestinian prisoners through the date of July 30, as in the call launched by the international Samidoun Palestinian Prisoner Solidarity Network.
To the masses of our people…
The coming days are fateful days. From the first moment our position is clear, of a battle until the finish. It requires all to mobilize and support us in this battle for freedom.
Glory to the lovers of freedom – Victory is inevitable
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine branch in Israeli prisons
June 24 2016
 