
Steadfastness and Victory
Statement by the Progressive Student Action Front in secondary schools on the occasion of the new academic year in the Gaza Strip
To our brave students – torches of freedom and unity, building the leaders of the future..
We greet you in the name of victory and steadfastness and we welcome the new academic year after 51 days of the barbaric Zionist aggression against the steadfast Gaza Strip. The long aggression of the Zionist war machine turned many of our educational institutions and school buildings into shelters for our displaced people from their destroyed homes. Despite the delay in the start of the new academic year for over three weeks, we see that this new year starts with a new slogan, that of victory and steadfastness. This period requires of us, educators and the Ministry of Education, many actions and decisions that support and enhance the resilience and victory of our students, their parents and their people.
These steps include:
First, immediately beginning to rebuild and repair schools targeted during the aggression ad a top priority for the school system to meet educational needs;
Second, the ministry of education in the national consensus government to work hard to provide school uniforms and stationery for students in the Strip, so as to lighten the burden of the obligations on our people.
Third, exemption of students from mandatory donations or fees, as students in the Gaza disaster area may not be able to collect fees from their families.
Fourth, it is important to develop a psychological support program for all students, support recreation within the school buildings and schoolyards, and promote educational and extracurricular activities.
Fifth, we must stand firm against a phenomenon of private lessons or tutoring being necessary for success, which have been a burden on students and the people generally during the previous year, which also means strenghening the competencies of teaching staff.
Finally, we salute all students, and the educational family as a whole, and hope that this school year will be one of challenge, steadfastness and progress despite the harsh conditions.
We wish you all a year full of victories and accomplishments.
Progressive Student Action Front
in middle and high schools
 