
[singlepic id=571 w=300 h=500 float=right]Strategy for the Liberation of Palestine, the classic PFLP organizational and political strategic vision developed at the Front’s Second Congress in February 1969 is now available electronically.
Marking the 45th anniversary of the founding of the Front, we are pleased to make this classic, historic yet strikingly relevant document available on our website. The Strategy presents a full strategic vision for liberating Palestine, including a review of the enemy forces and the forces of the revolution; a class analysis of the Palestinian and Arab movements; a vision for a liberated Palestine; and close study of organizational questions for building a revolutionary party. It presents a clear vision of the Front and the Palestinian national liberation movement of its time and remains an important and useful analysis for the present.
The Strategy for the Liberation of Palestine, was published by the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine in February 1969. It was translated at that time by the PFLP Information Department and widely circulated in English and other languages.
Table of Contents
Introduction
I. Importance of Political Thought
II. Who Are Our Enemies?
IIb. Who Are Our Enemies? (Part II)
III. Forces of the Revolution
IV. Palestinian Petit Bourgeoisie
V. The Palestinian Bourgeoisie
VI. Organization and Mobilisation of Palestinian Revolutionary Forces
VII. Forces of the Revolution on the Arab Level
VIII. Forces of the Revolution on the World Level
IX. Facing Imperialist Technological Superiority
X. The Aims and Significance of the Palestinian War of Liberation
XI. General Remarks
PART TWO
XII. Organizational Strategy
XIII. No Revolutionary Party Without Revolutionary Theory
XIV. Class Structure of the Revolutionary Party
XV. The Party and the Masses
XVI. Building the Combatant Party
XVII. Democratic Centralism – Basis of Relations Within the Revolutionary Party
XVIII. Criticism and Self Criticism
XIX. The Arab Nationalist Movement (ANM) and the PFLP
 