
The Palestinian people and the movement in solidarity with Palestine achieved a major victory in Sardinia, Italy, as the occupation state’s military has been removed from an international military training exercise on Sardinia after a growing protest movement, led by the Palestinian community locally alongside Palestine solidarity organizations and anti-militarist groups. Protests have been organized, the Sardinia-Palestine Friendship Association gathered over 14,000 signatures on a petition against the occupation army’s involvement in the exercises, and numerous direct appeals from Palestinian groups reached Sardinia. The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine salutes the people of Sardinia and all who struggled to achieve this victory, as part of the ongoing escalation of international solidarity with the Palestinian people, the leadership of Palestinian communities around the world in struggling for Palestine and building the movement internationally, and the growing campaign for boycott, divestment, sanctions and the international isolation of the occupation state.
From the Sardinia-Palestine Friendship Association:
Cancellation of Israeli military drills in Sardinia
The mobilizations that began with the International Assembly on August 30, 2014, which took place in Cagliari just four days after the end of operation “Protective Edge”, Israel’s bloody attacks on Gaza, continued on Saturday October 11 with a meeting of the working group against the military exercises, ahead of the civil trial on the contamination of Salto di Quirra and the demonstration planned for December 13.
Once again, we strongly condemn all planned military exercises in Sardinia, in particular those which include Israel, whose government has occupied Palestine and oppressed the Palestinian people for more than 66 years, and makes the practice of wars of aggression a cornerstone of its foreign policy.
The online petition launched on August 13 by “AssociazioneAmiciziaSardegnaPalestina”, and addressed to the President of the Sardinia Region, Francesco Pigliaru, and to the Italian Defence Minister, Roberta Pinotti, has garnered close to 14,000 signatures calling for the cancellation of Israeli military exercises in Sardinia, the revocation of the 2005 Military cooperation agreement with Israel and the application of a legally binding arms embargo against Israel, similar to the one imposed on Apartheid South Africa.
In addition to the numerous photo-appeals sent from Gaza, Israeli activists of Boycott from Within wrote to the President of the Sardinia Region Pigliaru and to the Italian Defence Minister Pinotti, calling on them to immediately cancel all military cooperation between the Italy and the Israeli Zionist regime.
The struggle against Israeli military exercises in Sardinia takes place within the context of the Palestinian call for Boycott, Disinvestment and Sanctions (BDS)against Israel and within the wider mobilizations that on September 13saw the Sardinian people protesting against military occupation that is responsible for destroying more than 35 thousand hectares of the Sardinian territory under the constraint of the military servitude.
In this regard, it is fitting to highlight the cancellation of the Israeli military from the official list of participants in the ongoing exercises in Sardinia, and specifically at Capo Frasca.
In fact, according to the documents sent from the Defence Ministry to the regional Committee (CoMiPa), the Israeli air force has been removed from the list of participating countries in the military exercises planned in Sardinia for the second half of 2014, i.e. from September to December 2014. The news was reported in the local newspapers and publishedon the website of the Sardinia Region.
However, this might represent a temporary or even only an apparent cancellation. It is possible that the Israeli military is included within the so called “eventual NATO guests“, or “eventual guests of the Italian Air Force”. Moreover, this possibility is also supported bythe absence of Sweden, which does not take part in joint military exercises with Israel. For these reasons, it is fundamental to continue in a shared and coordinated mobilization that leads to the identification and implementation of effective strategies of resistance.
Associazione Amicizia Sardegna Palestina
BDS Sardegna
As reported in the Electronic Intifada:
Israel excluded from war games in Italy following protests





Stephanie Westbrook, The Electronic Intifada
20 October 2014

The Israeli air force has been removed from the list of armed forces now taking part in multinational military training exercises on the Italian island of Sardinia following a campaign by anti-war activists.
During Israel’s deadly 51-day bombing campaign on Gaza in July and August, anti-militarization and Palestine solidarity groups mobilized against the military drills in general, and Israel’s participation in particular.
Palestinians in Gaza, standing in the rubble of destroyed homes, posted photographs appealing directly to Italy not to “train the pilots who bombs us.”
The prospect of Israeli F-16s using the island to train for bombing missions, combined with the ill-timed delivery to Israel of two Italian trainer jets just after the attacks on Gaza began, created public outrage in Italy, with multiple calls for an embargo on weapons cooperation with Israel.
On 31 July, the Italian defense ministry, published a note in an attempt to calm the waters. Without mentioning Israel, the ministry note stated that the planning stages for the drills had not yet been completed and only upon completion would the participating countries be confirmed.
The drills started last month and are scheduled to run until December.
As speculation on the possible exclusion of Israel continued, so did the mobilizations. Ademonstration on 13 September at the Capo Frasca firing range, where Israel was to train, saw large-scale participation.
More than 350 people broke into the military area in an act of civil disobedience.
Contradiction
On 25 September, Gioacchino Alfano, Italy’s deputy defense minister, responded to a parliamentary question by claiming that military drills with the Israeli air force were never in the plans and therefore could not have been suspended.
That statement contradicted a March 2014 document from the Capo Frasca firing range, which clearly indicated that Israel was to take part in drills during the second half of 2014.
Furthermore, Israel has participated in similar drills undertaken in Sardinia in recent years, as photographs posted by the Israeli military prove.
A source at the Italian defense ministry told The Electronic Intifada that “no Israeli military personnel will be involved in the exercises.”
“We can consider this a small victory. It demonstrates that grassroots pressure can affect government decision-making,” commented Fawzi Ismail, president of the Sardinia-Palestine Friendship Association. “Public opinion had its say and apparently the Italian government and NATO felt it inopportune to have Israel participate after the attacks on Gaza.”
Ismail noted that the mobilizations against the training exercises will continue. The Italian, German and US militaries are all participating in the drills.
During the exercises, bombs, missiles and artillery rounds are being fired across the island from tanks, helicopters, combat jets and warships.
Power of action
Further demonstrations are planned over the next few weeks.
Sardinians have made it clear that they intend to continue campaigning against the takeover of their land by military forces.
A number of private firms are also involved in the exercises. Among them are Alenia Aermacchi, part of the Finmeccanica group, Italy’s top weapons manufacturer. Alenia will be testing its M-346 trainer jet.
Two of those jets were delivered to Israel in July. They were part of a consignment of thirty jets that Israel has ordered from the company as part of a $1 billion deal, which gives Italy the dubious honor of being Europe’s top weapons provider to Israel.
It would be naive to see the exclusion of Israel as a change in direction for the Italian government, considering the strong ties between the two countries. But it is a testament to the power of grassroots action.
Stephanie Westbrook is a US citizen based in Rome, Italy. Her articles have been published by Common Dreams, Counterpunch, The Electronic Intifada, In These Times and Z Magazine. Follow her on Twitter: @stephinrome.






 