
Comrade Maher al-Taher, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and leader of its branch in exile, said on April 2 that the Palestinian people, through their actions on Land Day, reaffirmed their eternal commitment to the homeland of Palestine, in Haifa, Yafa, Akka, Nazareth, Lid and every inch of the land of Palestine.
In an interview with the Voice of the People radio station, Dr. Taher said that “On this day, many martyrs have fallen, who sought to send their message to the world: that this land is the land of the Palestinian people, that the Zionist invaders will not be able to continue their occupation. Since that date in 1976, this day has been marked by the people of Palestine throughout ’48, in the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, Jerusalem, and the countries of refuge, exile and diaspora, emphasizing the goals of our people and our unity in every place, and the unity of the land of Palestine, in the West Bank, Gaza, Jerusalem, and the occupied lands of ’48.”
Comrade Taher stressed that Palestine cannot be fragmented, and saluted the Palestinian people on the land occupied in 1948, saying “You have remained on the land, asserted your eternal connection to the land and our dear and beloved homeland. We will continue the struggle and resistance to liberate every part of the land of Palestine.”
Taher said that Palestinian unity is critical, saying “enough is enough – enough of managing the division. It is time to make a radical and genuine move to restore the PLO and rebuild the Palestinian house. The continuation of this situation cannot be accepted by the Palestinian people in any way.” He emphasized the importance of struggle and resistance, saying that the so-called “peace process” is a proven failure in the presence of an enemy that seeks total domination of the land. It is clear, said Taher, that there is only one option in front of our people – to continue steadfastness and resistance.
He praised the solidarity activities on Land Day around the world, saying that these activities were not only taking place in the countries surrounding Palestine, but in all Palestinian communties around the world, in Europe and the Americas, saying that the Land Day actions were part of comprehensive popular and media movements and actions, and that this day had beome a major day of action in the Arab world, to assert the unity of Palestinian land, express solidarity, and stand by the Palestinian people as they continue their struggle for the liberation of their homeland, adding that the Arab capitals will see many activities on Land Day and moving forward for Palestine.
 