
“We in the PFLP say that after 66 years of Nakba, it is time to draw lessons. The main lesson from this experience that it is impossible to coexist with the Zionist project, and that it is impossible to reach a political solution with this entity,” said Comrade Maher Taher, member of the Political Bureau of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
Speaking to Quds Press, Taher urged the importance of fully rehabilitating the resistance approach to expel the occupation and liberate Palestine. “The Zionist project is aimed at full control of Palestine, and the most it will concede is a warped Palestinian entity that forces Palestinians in service to the Zionist forces. It seeks to impose a political solution to resolve its problems and contradictions, not to respond to the demands of Palestinians,” said Taher, noting that a political solution through negotiations based on the resolutions of international legitimacy is clearly no longer an option, if it ever was.
“From this point, we have to work to liberate Palestine. The resistance is the main path to the restoration of our rights. Without the occupation recognizing that remaining on our land is costly at an economic and human level, it will not provide a solution,” said Taher. He warned against attempts to liquidate the right of return: “Now, after 66 years of Nakba, the Israelis and the U.S. believe that there is a opportunity to liquidate the right of return…We say that the Palestinian people who have resisted the occupation for a hundred years will insist upon their full rights and will not accept to liquidate their rights. The right of return is an individual and collective right that no one can tamper with. We will not accept resettlement or any solution that detracts from our right to return, despite all the difficulties we face.”
In relation to the reconciliation agreement signed between Hamas and Fateh, Taher said that he hoped it was indeed a prelude to ending the division and unifying Palestinian political ranks. “The Palestinian people have paid a heavy price for the division. We want to restore unity, and we welcome any attempts to end the division and build national unity on the basis of reshaping the Palestinian national project with a collective leadership and participatory decision making by Palestinian forces. The option of negotiations has been clearly proven to be a failed bet, while Israel continues to impose a fait accompli.”
“The PFLP certainly welcomes efforts to end the division, but we will not participate in a [PA] government. Our position on the Oslo Accords is well known,” said Taher.
 