
Thousands of Palestinians in the city of Bethlehem and the camp of Dheisheh participated in the last march of the body of the struggling comrade, the martyr Raed As’ad Salhi, who died of his wounds on the 3rd of September in a Zionist hospital after his shooting in an assassination raid by Zionist forces. The mass march was accompanied by a general strike in the area, called by the Popular Front and the national and Islamic Forces.
Many leaders and cadres of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine in Dheisheh camp as well as the relatives, family and friends of the martyr, participated in the mass funeral, where the body of the martyr was carried on the shoulders of his comrades.
The funeral procession was launched from the front of the Beit Jala Governmental Hospital through the streets until reaching the home of the martyr’s family in Dheisheh camp where the last farewells were given. Participants in the funeral chanted as they marched, saluting the martyr and pledging to continue to struggle until the liberation of Palestine, denouncing the role of the Palestinian Authority and security coordination.
The participation of the masses and the huge crowds that came to be part of the funeral of Comrade Raed are an affirmation of the status of the martyr and the depth of his sacrifice. Comrade Raed joins a constellation of martyrs from Dheisheh camp including the martyrs Moataz Zawahreh, Malek Shaheen, Baha’a Hamamdeh, confirming that the Zionist enemy is waging a campaign against the cadres of the Front in the camp, a campaign of assassinations, arrests and shootings in the legs, with dozens of the youth of the camp riddled with bullets. Still, all of this has not and will not break their will, determination and continued confrontation of the targeting of the camp.
As one of the masked comrades said, the blood of the martyr Raed Salhi will not be wasted or forgotten, pledging to hold those responsible accountable for the crime of his assassination. His memory will remain a curse on all suspicious forces who failed to defend the camp or condemn the crime against the comrade.
After the funeral, the checkpoints and points of confrontation with the occupation in Bethlehem were sites of struggle where the cadres of the Front confronted the occupation forces.
 