
Marking the third anniversary of the Israeli war on the Gaza Strip, Comrade Jamil Mizher said that the occupation, despite its vast crimes and massacres, failed to achieve its objectives and could not break the will or steadfastness of the Palestinian people.
“Three years after the criminal war on the Strip, our people have regained our capacity and capabilities to confront the Israeli occupation, and despite the continuing threats, have not and will never surrender to their occupation, said Mizher, a member of the Central Committee of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
Comrade Mizher stressed that meaningful national reconciliation was long overdue in order to address the situation faced by our people. He urged that national unity processes must include practical steps on the ground – the release of political prisoners and ending restrictions on travel – and must include fully re-building the Palestine Liberation Organization on a democratic and inclusive basis, inside and outside Palestine, including new democratic elections for the Palestinian National Council with proportional representation among the Palestinian people everywhere they are. In this way, a rebuilt PLO can become a strong mechanism to confront the occupation.

Commenting on the impact of Arab revolutions on the Palestinian cause, Mizher said that strengthening Arab popular power benefits the Palestinian cause. He called upon Arab governments – particularly those new governments following revolutions – to act to lift the siege on Gaza, permanently open all crossings, and provide aid and assistance to the Palestinian people in order to support their steadfastness in the face of occupation, aggression and war crimes.
Three years after the war on Gaza, concluded Mizher, the Palestinian people are eager for a national program from which to confront the occupation, fully rebuild Gaza, and build the Palestinian national liberation movement.
Comrade Emad Abu Rahma, a member of the Central Committee of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, also noted that three years after the attack on Gaza, we must take Israeli threats to launch a new war on Gaza seriously. Abu Rahma said that the Palestinian people must be ready on the political and diplomatic fronts, and prepare the resistance forces, in order to counter these threats.

Abu Rahma said that the occupation has continued its attacks on Gaza on a daily basis, invading with tanks, targeting civilians, and assassinating resistance activists; he noted that such attacks also happen on a constant basis in the West Bank, through land confiscation, home demolitions, and arrest raids and attacks. War crimes, he noted, are a permanent and continuous feature of the occupation.
In the face of these ongoing and escalating threats, “it is our people’s right to exercise all forms of struggle against this occupation, especially as international legitimacy and international law affirm the right of our people to exercise all forms of struggle,” said Abu Rahma. He noted that the Israeli government feared meaningful Palestinian national unity, saying that Israeli threats are escalating as they see that “Palestinian political forces are serious about achieving reconciliation.”
 