
The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine in Tunisia and the Tunisian Popular Front jointly organized a commemoration of the PFLP’s 48th anniversary in Tunis on December 12, with the participation of activists and supporters of the Front.
Comrade Zaki al-Obeidi opened the event, welcoming the participants and guests. Rafiq Faisal El Khadraoui spoke first, on behalf of the Tunisian Popular Front in Ariana, noting the close friendship between the Tunisian Popular Front and the PFLP and the dedication of the PFLP to the liberation of Palestine and providing political leadership to the Arab movement.
Mohammed Hbhoub of the Tunisian PF youth in the region spoke about the role of Palestinian youth in the rising intifada in occupied Palestine, praising their steadfastness and emphasizing the need for escalating Arab struggle with Palestine.
Al-Obeidi read a message to the event from Comrade Marwan Abdel-Al, member of the Central Committee of the PFLP and leader of its branch in Lebanon, saluting the Tunisian people’s firm commitment to the Palestinian cause.
Mohsen Nabti, member of the Political Bureau of the People’s Movement of Tunisia, spoke about the regional situation particularly in Syria, denouncing the role of Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey in undermining Syria and Libya, condemning the destruction of Libya by NATO bombing.
Sayed Ahmad Siddiq, of the Tunisian Popular Front bloc in parliament, spoke about the centrality of the Palestinian cause to the Arab struggle, and the need to mobilize the youth of the Tunisian PF for Palestine, as well as through action in parliament.
Comrade Ismail al-Jounaidi spoke on behalf of the PFLP in Tunisia, reviewing the history of the Front and the Front’s current involvement in the rising intifada in Palestine, emphasizing the need for the unity of the resistance in order to defeat the occupier.
Comrade Mohammed Jammour concluded the evening, giving a brief history of Palestine from Ottoman colonialism to the Nakba. He also spoke about the draft law in the Tunisian parliament to criminalize normalization with the Zionist state and the importance of the boycott in supporting the Palestinian liberation movement.
The event concluded with Palestinian and Tunisian songs performed to honor the struggles of the peoples for liberation and justice.
 