
Q. Nablus is considered a massive fortress for the guerrillas of the Martyr Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades, what is the reason? And do you coordinate with the rest of the PFLP guerrillas in the rest of the West Bank and Gaza?

A. Martyr Abu Ali Mustafa Brigades are everywhere in Palestine, and if there was Palestinian cities were the presence is stronger than other areas, it is due to many reasons, most importantly: the assassination and arrest of most of the leaders of the brigades, the limited amount of financial sources due to the siege imposed on the organization in general, in addition to the building process taking place currently in the PFLP preparing for the upcoming phase, due to our convection that the war of liberation is long, and that the enemy knows only the language of force. Concerning the coordination with the rest of the guerrillas in the rest of the areas, we do so continually despite the difficulties in the coordination process due to the checkpoints by the occupation everywhere, and also due to the fact that contact through phone and internet is not secure.
Q. The PFLP, through out its history, stood out for the massiveness and power of its military operations, but during the current intifada, the PFLP suffered from a rarity in operations, even though its operations were powerful and unique, what is the reason for this?
A. There are still massive and powerful operations, such as the operation of the assassination of the low-life criminal Zeevi, and the martyrdom operations in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, Pitah Tikvah, Natania, and Kfar Saba. The brigades got a presence and an effect in every occupied part of our beloved land. The rarity of the operations, which all other Palestinian factions suffer from, got many reasons, and we do not deny that the Apartheid Wall is among those reasons that have caused the operations inside to be less in recent times. But this does not mean that those operations do not exist.
Q. You suffer from a weakness in financial capabilities and are continually targeted by the Zionists forces…How are you able to manage in light of the difficult situation you are in?
A. We in the brigades, when we have chosen this path, knew beforehand that we will be targeted by the occupiers and its collaborators, and that martyrdom and arrest await us every moment. However, we will not give away our path until victory or martyrdom. Due to the constant raids by the Zionists against the PFLP, we have lost a lot of comrades in the brigades, either by arrest or assassination. According to our financial capabilities, we manage the issues of our daily life such as food, drink, and other. There are still people of honor among our people that support this noble phenomenon of resistance and offer support according to their abilities, due to their realization that there is no choice but to resist.
Q. The program of the government of Salam Fayyad does not have any mention of armed resistance? What is the opinion of the brigades on that issue?
