
Hundreds of cadres and supporters of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine confronted Zionist occupation forces on all the border areas of the Gaza Strip from the north to the south on Friday, December 11, in response to the call of the Front to confront the occupier on its anniversary, to make the anniversary one of intifada and uprising.
Comrade Sami Shawki Ahmad Madi was martyred, shot by occupation forces in cold blood as he protested at the borders, and dozens were wounded with live bullets and tear gas as they marched, carrying Palestinian flags and PFLP banners.
Comrade Sami Madi was martyred in Central Gaza, where comrades confronted and were attacked by occupation soldiers, clashing with them near Bureij camp for many hours. Dozens of comrades were shot with live ammunition in this area as well. Comrade Hani Khalil emphasized that the loss of Comrade Madi was a great loss for the Front, and that he died struggling and confronting the occupation military directly.
In northern Gaza, comrades mobilized near the Beit Hanoun checkpoint, led by Comrade Jamil Mizher, member of the PFLP’s Political Bureau and leader of its branch in Gaza, confronting occupation forces who attacked the demonstrators with tear gas and live bullets.
Comrade Mizher spoke to the media at the demonstration, saying that the Front is marking its anniversary with a day of anger in order to confirm the Front’s adherence to national principles, resistance and the escalation of the intifada.
Comrade Hussein Mansour emphasized that our people do not recognize the so-called “borders” created in the land of Palestine by the occupier, and that our Palestinian people in Gaza will not be prevented from engaging fully in the intifada.
In Gaza province, comrades confronted occupation soldiers near the “Nahal Oz” border area, where they were attacked with tear gas, injuring a number of comrades including the leader Comrade Samir Baker. Comrade Baker said that these marches are meant to deliver a clear message that our people will not be stopped from participating in resistance and intifada by occupier terror and murderous attacks. “The Gaza Strip is an integral part of our occupied homeland,” said Baker.
Comrades in Khan Younis marching in the border area were attacked by occupation forces with live bullets and sound bombs and tear gas. Comrade Hani Thawabteh said that the Front would persist in struggle until achieving the people’s goals of self-determination, return and liberation. “The PFLP has decided to participate in confrontations from the north to the south of the Strip to directly confront the occupation, to support the Jerusalem Uprising, and to send a message to the international community and the United Nations in light of the ongoing occupation attacks against the Palestinian people amid the international silence, lack of protection or support for our people defending their land and holy places,” said Thawabteh.
He saluted in particular the participation of Palestinian women in the day of action and in the intifada generally, noting that Palestinian women are an integral part of the struggle and its leadership against the occupier.
Occupation snipers began firing with live ammunition on the demonstrators, seriously wounding five who were taken to hospitals for care.
In Rafah, a number of comrades rallied at the “Kerem Salem” border area, confirming the continuation of the intifada.
Following the demonstrations, a delegation from the PFLP leadership, led by Comrade Jamil Mizher, visited the wounded comrades in the hospitals throughout the Strip, wishing them a speedy recovery.

			#gallery-1 {
				margin: auto;
			}
			#gallery-1 .gallery-item {
				float: left;
				margin-top: 10px;
				text-align: center;
				width: 33%;
			}
			#gallery-1 img {
				border: 2px solid #cfcfcf;
			}
			#gallery-1 .gallery-caption {
				margin-left: 0;
			}
			/* see gallery_shortcode() in wp-includes/media.php */
		



























































				Mohammed Al-Hwety
				
















 